Concavenator
    "Conc", "Concav", "Concave"
Concavenators are swift, agile predators skilled in hunting on both land and water. As a social species they thrive in loosely bonded groups for selfish reasons and move between key areas on their endless hunts for sustenance. This medium carnivore is known for their trinket hoarding tendencies, as well as their brutal feeding habits, often ripping their prey apart in a matter of minutes.

⁨⁨⁨
Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: snake
Photo: Byuul
Profile inspired by Giant Otters and Stoats.
⁩⁩⁩

Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.08.2025 22:39
Overview
Bild
Medium Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Carnivore
Concavenator are classified as ⁨⁨semi-aquatic⁩⁩ and ⁨⁨terrestrial⁩⁩ and may use water to their advantage in all situations. Concavenator can third party.
Concavenator can third party only if the hunter OR the hunted come within 2 bodylengths of the water.
Concavenator form temporary pairbonds.
Concavenator are sedentary.
Concavenator have an aggressive nature. At the communal nesting ground, they are tolerant.
Concavenator scavenge when solo, and do not when grouped.
Concavenator do not tolerate scavengers.
Concavenator cannibalize albino, and tolerate other mutated individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Concavenator include:
Albino, Melanistic, Vita Pied
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
8 Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring.
Concavenator does not adopt, unless a kit sneaks into a nest unnoticed.
This group is known as a gang.
 
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 4 Concavenator may participate in an engagement.
Only Sub/Adults are permitted to hunt or defend, unless in a group containing no Sub/Adults.
Concavenator flee from Spinosaurus if they are aggressed.
Solitary Concavenator hunt up to Medium tier.
2-3 Concavenator hunt up to Large tier.
A full hunting group of 4 Concavenator hunt up to solo Apex tier, excluding sauropods.
Concavenator may third party targets it can hunt if the target comes within two body lengths of its current water source.
Adolescent Concavenator do not assist with their parents’ hunts.
Solo Adolescent Concavenator may attempt to hunt up to Small tier.
In a group with no adults present: Up to 2 Adolescent Concavenator may hunt up to solo Medium tier.

Preferred Prey
Solitary or paired Sarcosuchus, solitary Deinosuchus, and Megalania
Fish and meat
Concavenator are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 1 hour.
Concavenator nest communally in Sharptooth Marsh among the bushes and reeds, close to water. Their nests are spaced at least 5 body lengths apart from other nesting pairs.
Concavenator may form same-sex pairs, and still travel to the communal nesting grounds, where they construct a nest together. Though no eggs are laid, sometimes a pair may be surprised by an orphaned kit sneaking into their nest, and will adopt it.

Physical Dimorphism
Physical dimorphism for Concavenator is mandatory.
This profile does not have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Females, known as jills, have bristles along their body, clustered on their back and arms.
Suitable subspecies include: Spinatergus
♂️ Males, known as jacks, have no bristles and have more pronounced humps over their backs.
Suitable subspecies include: Corcovatus, Carcharus
 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Concavenator offspring, known as kits, hatch in secure nests built near water at the communal nesting grounds in Sharptooth Marsh. These nests are often hidden in reed beds or placed in shallow, swampy embankments.
Kits remain in close proximity to their parents, relying heavily on them for both food and protection.
Shortly after hatching, kits imprint on the adult who feeds them first. This figure becomes the center of their world, and they follow this parent closely, chirping loudly if left behind or to signify hunger, but otherwise remain relatively quiet to avoid drawing attention from other predators.
Throughout their development, young Concavenator remain deferential to their elders. They avoid challenging larger or older individuals directly, instead learning when to withdraw, submit, or display appeasement to avoid harm.
As juveniles, kits become noticeably more active and adventurous. They engage in gentle wrestling and short bursts of chasing, mostly with siblings or nearby juveniles.
They often splash through shallow water, testing their balance and beginning to mimic adult hunting behaviours, including short lunges or mock pounces. Play at this stage is frequent and important for developing physical coordination and social boundaries.
Juvenile Concavenator are inquisitive but cautious. They avoid direct confrontations with adults or strangers, submitting instantly with chirps, lowered heads, and flattened postures if confronted.
As kits grow into adolescence, their behavior shifts. Curiosity gives way to skill development, and they begin shadowing adults on short scouting runs, or clumsily attempting to stalk and pounce on small prey.
Many kits at this stage practice their swimming and diving abilities independently, taking joy in perfecting the underwater lunges that will one day define their hunting style.
While playful and bold among their peers, kits are wary in mixed-age social settings. The larger kits demand respect from those younger than them, and the once wary attitude starts to fade as they reach adulthood themselves.
As they mature into Sub-Adult, kits eventually leave the group - driven by instinct to find new connections, or pushed out by space and resource limitations. These individuals rarely maintain emotional bonds with the family they left behind.
Upon dispersal, many form loose gangs with other Sub-Adults, learning from each other and developing a tolerance-based hierarchy. They are prone to hoarding behaviors and have low tolerance for sharing food or close social proximity with others, a habit often retained into adulthood.
If not pushed out of the group, some Sub-Adults may linger if food is abundant and the family is tolerant. Those who stay behind assist in hunting or helping guard the nesting area. If permitted, they may attempt to rebuild or strengthen ties with parents or older siblings - offering caught food or interesting objects to remain within their good graces.
 
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Kits that lose their parents at a young age or are separated from their nesting site  face a grim and difficult upbringing. These orphaned Concavenator are extremely cautious, often avoiding contact with other creatures entirely - including their own kind. Loud noises and unfamiliar scents send them into hiding and they are rarely spotted far from cover.
Orphaned kits instinctively gravitate toward swampy and marshy terrain. Shallow water edges become their refuge, and they learn quickly to vanish beneath the surface at the first sign of danger. Many survive purely by stealth and escape, relying on their swimming skills and an uncanny ability to remain still and hidden.
When alone and desperate, orphaned kits approach the nests of others - especially if they detect the warmth or scent of eggs or hatchlings. In rare moments of desperation, they have been observed crawling into the nests of unrelated Concavenator or even other species, hoping for food or warmth. If no others are present, they may simply collapse in exhaustion within the safety of the nest site.
As they grow, these orphans adopt a life of solitary survival. They scavenge when they can, avoid confrontations, and rely heavily on ambush tactics. Kits raised entirely on their own tend to grow into fiercely independent adults.
Those grown on their own are especially possessive over food and resources. They are quick to drive off any creature - even of their own kind - that comes too close during a meal. Their distrustful nature and lack of early socialization also hinder them during courtship, as they often struggle to read signals of other Concavenator or respond appropriately.
Compared to individuals raised in social groups, these orphans are less tolerant and far more guarded in every interaction.
Bild
Concavenator are playful yet highly possessive creatures, often seen investigating their surroundings with curiosity, but quick to guard what they consider theirs. These can range from trinkets, food and basking spots, which are treated as valuable resources. While they may frolic or nudge each other in bouts of social play, they are not inclined to share once something is claimed.
Concavenator return frequently to familiar water sources - not only to cool down, but also to forage, hydrate, and escape danger. While they do tend to wander inland most of the time, they still return to water frequently.
Gangs of Concavenator often linger in areas scattered with bones, shells or other small items - and subtly mark these spaces with their scent and physical presence. These trinket zones can act as temporary hang-out spots for gangs, who may revisit them seasonally.
Concavenator are alert, nimble, and tactile creatures. They are neither excessively loud nor silent, vocalizing mainly with low growls, huffs, or curious chirps when communicating within their group.
Concavenator are flighty when alone, but grow bolder in numbers.
There is no strict social hierarchy for Concavenator, but the most assertive or experienced individuals often take the lead in decisions regarding movement or feeding. During rest periods, dominant Concavenator position themselves in elevated or central spots, keeping watch while others sleep nearby. Vigilance is a shared responsibility, with lookout duties shifting between gang members throughout the day.
While not naturally confrontational, Concavenator are acutely aware of their surroundings and quick to respond to unusual scents, sounds or disruptions in their environment.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Concavenator sleep in short bursts both during the day and at night, typically curled up together with bonded individuals on banks, in shallow water, small islands, or in deep brush.
They often sleep on top of piles of trinkets, both as a show of possessiveness and for comfortability (even on top of typically rough objects!). 
They may also share trinkets with those that they are particularly bonded with.
Concavenator are often seen basking and sleeping in the sun, and swimming around in shallow water while the rest of their gang.
 
Bild
✦ Gangs
Concavenator are highly social but intensely possessive individuals. They typically form loosely structured groups that fluctuate over time. There is no fixed hierarchy, though some members naturally display more dominant or submissive traits.
These groups, called gangs, often form from strangers, parents, siblings or past nestmates, and while stable for stretches of time, individuals may wander off to explore or seek new companions. They sometimes return later with little fuss, if there is room for them.
Concavenator do not share food. During feeding, each individual eats their fill, quickly tearing through kills. While food can be chunked for faster consumption, those who eat the fastest benefit most. Slower eaters are often forced to join a second hunt or scavenge alone. The only exception is during courtship, when a male may offer food to a potential mate or a mother may share with her young below adolescence.
Concavenator are natural hoarders. They obsessively collect bones, trophies and any trinkets that appease the individual - often carrying them around for long periods of time or stashing them in hidden nests or secluded corners of their range. Some are happy with just one possession, while others collect multiple at a time.
These collections are deeply personal, and individuals form powerful emotional attachments to them. If an item is lost or stolen, the owner may display visible distress, returning to the last known location repeatedly or obsessively searching nearby terrain. For this reason, Concavenator do not share items, and may react aggressively if another member of the group touches or takes something from their hoard - unless it is part of a courting gesture.
Receiving a gift from a fellow Concavenator (especially one who is not family) is a rare and meaningful gesture, often signaling courtship or a powerful bond of trust. These gifts are not given lightly and may involve parting with a prized possession, making them incredibly significant.
✦ Solitary Behavior
When alone, Concavenator become more cautious of others. They patrol their surroundings regularly, guard their kills and hoards more fiercely, and are notably less tolerant of intrusions - especially around feeding areas or if approached while inspecting their stash.
A solo-grown Concavenator tends to be more aggressive and reluctant to share space or resources, and less forgiving of social missteps compared to those who matured in the company of other Concavenators. They also avoid approaching or being spotted by grouped up individuals outside of Sharptooth Marsh.
Those looking to join others of their kind often make their way to Sharptooth Marsh, a common meeting and nesting ground for other Concavenators, hoping to be accepted into an existing gang or to form a new one with fellow loners.
✦ Forming a gang
When a Concavenator comes across a situation where they may form or join an existing gang, they will cheerfully chirp at the other individual(s) in hopes of gaining their attention and interest.
If a Concavenator is met with friendly body language and their call is mimicked back to them, they are welcomed in without issue.
However, if they’re met with aggression, they will quickly retreat without resistance to avoid conflict or injury.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Albino offspring are cannibalized by the entire gang once their lack of pigmentation becomes visible. Those that manage to survive into adulthood face constant hostility or are immediately cannibalized upon being spotted. 
They live an extremely solitary life, never given the opportunity to socialize or court others of their kind, and are consistently met with aggression whenever they encounter other Concavenators.
As a result, they end up adapted to a solitary lifestyle and tend to seek out the company or territories of Spinosaurus, the only species that typically tolerate their presence.
Melanistic individuals receive no hostile treatment, and neither do they display any behavioral differences from others of their species. They are generally treated as equals among their kind, facing no discrimination or unusual behavior from others. 
In some cases, their darker coloration is even seen as a desirable trait in potential mates, offering superior camouflage in the shadows - a valuable advantage for stealth and hunting.
Bild
✦ Hoarding Aggression
Concavenator are not territorial, but are possessive over resources and proximity. Groups and solitary individuals are extremely particular about their immediate space, especially if it contains a kill, nesting site, or item stash.
If another Concavenator lingers too long or tries to approach the personal space of another, threats will follow - starting with visual displays and growls, and ending in physical attacks if the warning is not heeded.
Concavenator are tolerant of eachother, from a distance. However if personal boundaries are crossed, aggression quickly surfaces.
This behavior is most frequently triggered by item theft, unwanted close proximity with another, or challenges over mates. Even in social groups, tempers can flare with little warning when a Concavenator feels their possessions or space are under threat.
Concavenator are extremely possessive, especially when it comes to their collected items. If another Concavenator attempts to take their trinkets, they react with a warning growl or defensive display.
Should the offender persist, quick lunges, tail slaps, or slashing bites may follow. Usually, the initial attack deters another, but unrelated individuals may test each other's limits by trying to snatch unattended valuables. If this behavior becomes habitual, the tension can escalate to the point where both individuals can no longer coexist in the same gang peacefully. 
Concavenator hold grudges and will always drive away a personal rival who has wronged them in the past.
✦ Driving away personal rivals
A personal rival to a Concavenator is another who has repeatedly stolen or invaded their personal space. If a personal rival is within a group a Concavenator joins, the individual will attack their personal rival on sight, attempting to drive them out of the gang for good. These fights have high consequences, and often result in death.
Upon spotting their rival, aggression is dirty and escalates to physical attacks quickly. Nearby Concavenator distance themselves and watch keenly, mates and offspring pace, hopeful their partner will survive the battle.
These interactions end in the death of a personal rival, or successfully driving them out of line of sight from the group. Even if a rival gives up with submissive wailing, the attacker will pursue until the rival is promptly driven out of sight from the group.
✦ Avoidance outside of Sharptooth Marsh
Outside of Sharptooth Marsh, Concavenator avoid interactions with other gangs within the same POI. If one group is actively hunting in the area, others steer clear and relocate to a different POI to avoid direct competition.
If outsiders are spotted they are ignored.
 
Bild
Concavenator are generally intolerant of other species near their gang, though they are defensive over their personal space.
If approached by 2+ Apex or 3+ Large carnivores, Concavenator chooses to flee rather than engage, prioritizing their own survival. If challenged or outright attacked, 4 members defend, but the group will never risk fighting Apex pairs.
When threatened, Concavenator can flee toward water sources, using them as natural escape routes. On occasion, they even bait other species to the water, where hidden gang members lie in wait to ambush.
While defending kills or nesting grounds, they exhibit a range of threat displays before escalating to violence. If these warnings are ignored, they attack - but always with caution, seeking to avoid unnecessary injury.
Smaller carnivores and herbivores are usually tolerated in their vicinity, often observed for potential hunting opportunities. However if an item is carried by these smaller creatures, inquisitive Concavenator will follow relentlessly in hopes of stealing the item from them.
✦ Spinosaurus
Concavenator are one of the only two species tolerated by Spinosaurus within their territories. This tolerance is likely due to their smaller size and a visual similarity to juvenile Spinosaurids.
The tolerance goes both ways, as long as they are allowed to fish and linger around the Apex's protected territory.
However, Spinosaurus often help themselves to Concavenator kills, and in order to maintain peace, Concavenator are forced to surrender their catch with minimal resistance - though not without visible signs of irritation.
Bild
Concavenator form agile and opportunistic hunting groups of up to 4 individuals, Sub-Adult or older. These groups rely on coordinated ambushes, endurance, and tactical strikes rather than raw strength.
When stalking prey, Concavenator use the terrain to their advantage - dense vegetation, rocky terrain, and especially swampy or marshy regions where their strong swimming skills come into play.
Hunting behaviour is quiet and calculated, often with the group approaching from multiple directions before launching a sudden, rapid strike. A favored tactic involves one individual darting forward to deliver a targeted slash to their prey’s vulnerable areas, such as feet or neck, while others distract the prey and await their own turn to strike. These attacks are swift and followed by immediate retreat, minimizing risk and allowing the inflicted wounds to weaken the prey over time.
If an ambush fails or the target escapes, the hunting group may persistently follow it, using their stamina to wear it down. However, Concavenator avoid prolonged fights - if majority of the hunting group is badly wounded and the prey shows no visible signs of severe injury, Concavenator will abandon the hunt in favor of seeking easier opportunities.
Concavenator are adaptable hunters and utilize water if able to. Hunting as a group, prey is chased into difficult terrain or trapped against embankments. These hunters rely on water to conceal their next move - readily darting in and out of its depths and using it as a tool to confuse or corral fleeing animals.
After a successful kill, Concavenator devours their prey. There is no structured feeding order - it is a first-come-first-served frenzy. Individuals tear off large chunks and gorge quickly, often leaving nothing behind for other members. This competitive feeding habit means that slower or more submissive individuals are forced to hunt again.
However, only those who are hungry participate in repeated hunts. If a Concavenator has already eaten its fill, they do not risk themselves for others and will not join consecutive hunts, prioritizing rest or guarding their trinkets instead.
Concavenator are efficient, strategic and relentless - true opportunists that thrive on precision, patience and teamwork.
Up to 4 Concavenator may participate in an engagement or hunt.
If a target, whether being hunted or hunting, is a valid prey for the Concavenators and comes within two body lengths of a water source they occupy, the Concavenators are allowed to attempt thirdpartying the encounter.
 
Bild
✦ Courtship
Though naturally possessive, Concavenator displays a rare moment of selective and meaningful gifting during courtship. Individuals - regardless of sex - will trade  cherished items in a rare display of affection. These gifts are not exchanged lightly; the act of giving is deliberate and symbolic, especially among adults. A gifted item reflects the suitor’s worth and attentiveness to the other’s preferences, or perhaps their shared interests.
When accepting a gift, the courting individuals will place their gifts together and both lie on the pile. Grooming their suitor and exchanging affectionate calls with their new mate.
Courtship can end in two ways:
If a suitor drops their gift and approaches empty handed, the one approached grows weary. They might walk away or drop their item in confusion, quickly snatching it back or biting to reclaim it if taken. The individual carrying the item drops it immediately and steps back with a gentle coo. In this situation, the approached will snatch their gift back and walk away, rejecting this potential mate in favor of another.
Sometimes, upon closer inspection, a gift might not be as favourable as originally perceived. After a gift is piled on another, a suitor may take a moment to inspect the pile. If determined unsuitable, the individual reclaims their gift and walks away. Effectively rejecting this potential mate and their offering.
If two suitors seek the same mate, and no clear decision is shown initially. The suitors may grow agitated and challenge the one vying for their mates attention. Courtship challenges between rival suitors are intense but brief. It begins with posturing and emitting low, guttural growls. If agitated displays alone do not settle the matter, the chosen mate must pick before both suitors abandon their attempt. If a suitor is not immediately chosen, grudges begin to form. Sometimes not being picked or losing to a rival during courtship is enough form a personal grievance.
True compatibility often lies in subtle social responses - such as how a suitor handles possessiveness or jealousy.
Some pairs may court each other multiple times in different seasons and know the perfect trinket to win them over.
✦ Nesting
When ready to nest, all Concavenator pairs travel to Sharptooth Marsh - a universal Concavenator nesting grounds. Gangs remain together even when nesting and only tolerate the proximity of others during this instinctual nesting season.
Each individual pair spaces their nest a minimum of 5 body lengths away from other pairs. They guard their nests fiercely from other adults coming too close.
The female initiates the nesting process, but both partners contribute to clearing the area, arranging materials, and guarding the space. In same-sex pairings, nest roles are flexible, and duties are either shared or alternated depending on the dynamic.
Though males do not lay eggs, they remain close during this period, guarding the perimeter and bringing gifts or food to the brooding partner. In same-sex pairs, both individuals may take turns lying atop the nest or performing guarding duties.
Once eggs are laid, the nesting partner becomes significantly more territorial. And are more reactive to intrusions - even from fellow group members - and chase away any other Concavenator who are not their mate or current hatchlings. This aggression fades slightly after their brood hatches, though protective instincts remain high.
✦ Parenthood
Kits are quite loud when first hatching out of their eggs. They require immediate attention and grooming from their parent pair and will only calm down once preened by them. Hatchlings spend their first few hours seeking out warmth around them letting out soft, reassuring yelps every now and then for their parents to notice.
Usually one parent stays close enough to the nest to make sure their kits don’t scatter away too far, as they tend to become more active nearing Juvenile.
Sickly kits, lying motionless in the nest or unable to eat, do not receive extra care or attention from their parents or siblings, and may be left behind when the family starts moving areas. Sick kits are pushed from the group and forced to survive without the protection of a gang.
Once kits reach Adolescent, the gang reconnect and leave Sharptooth Marsh to continue on their regular pathings.
Parents allow their offspring to remain close to them until Sub-Adult.
Despite their selfish tendencies, elder pairs who have nested together over years of courtship seasons show distress when their offspring leave or outgrow the gang. Separation or loss is deeply distressing and may lead to temporary wandering, aggression or obsessive hoarding behavior in the aftermath.
Both parents partake in caring for their kits. They feed and play with their offspring often, protect them from danger, and teach them their gang's typical migration patterns. They may also gift them lesser items if they are especially fond of a particular kit.
While kits rarely misbehave toward their parents, they often nip at unrelated individuals, provoking irritable behaviour and testing their boundaries. This behavior serves as a crucial learning process; kits that receive frequent reprimands generally develop a better understanding of Concavenator social dynamics compared to those who are shy, reserved, and avoid playful interactions.
Attentive parents are more likely to be chosen again as mates by the same courtship partner in the future, though this is not always guaranteed.
Parents do not help other pairs with raising their offspring. They allow their kits to engage with one another after Juvenile, but do permit adults nearby when young are not yet weaned from the nest.
✦ Offspring Maturity
As the offspring mature into Adolescent, parents gradually shift their attention from them and give the young kits more freedom to explore their surroundings and test boundaries within the group.
In rare cases some parents and siblings might develop favorites among their family, forming strong bonds that often last from the Sub-Adult stage well into full adulthood. These favored individuals will be permitted close without provoking a defensive response from their family's personal space being invaded.
Parents may choose to chase out offspring that do not leave willingly at Sub-Adult. If they are met with hostility, the whole gang will assist in chasing out this individual.
 
✦ Adoption
In instances where multiple Concavenator are nesting at the same time, orphaned kits seeking companionship will sneak into an unoccupied nest - often one belonging to a same-sex pair. These nests are typically empty, reducing the risk of being bullied by already hatched young. The orphan is then showered with attention from the pair, who are usually very excited to care for a hatchling of their own.
In other cases, orphans may enter nests that already contain kits. Reactions vary: some hatchlings may bully and drive the newcomer away, while others may accept it as just another sibling. When the orphan blends in well with the existing clutch (especially if they are of similar size and age) - parents are likely to accept and raise it without issue.
However, if the orphan stands out due to its size or coloration, the adults may reject it, leaving it for another pair to deal with. In rare instances, aggressive or inexperienced parents might go as far as cannibalizing the kit if they feel their brood is threatened by its presence.
Bild
As Concavenator age, their skin starts to pale and their once migratory nature slips into dull indifference. Replaced is the desire to claim what is not theirs and elders will readily relocate to the nesting grounds in search of nests with valuable trinkets. Approaching a perched parent, the elder watches from a distance, waiting for the opportunity to claim the trinket pile when both parents have moved a couple body lengths away. When the moment opens, the elder will sit on the nest and aggress any Concavenator that approaches - even going as far as shooing away the resident hatchlings out the nest.
If no nest is around, an elder Concavenator will steal piles of trinkets from other Concavenator, much in the same fashion. This approach is effortless as the younger generations do all the gathering work for them. If paired with a mate, both will work together to guard the pile from its original owner.
Oftentimes this clever theft strategy results in elders being pushed out of gangs regularly - but a brief exile does not deter the elder and they still follow from some distance away. Persistent and annoying, almost every elder has many personal rivals.
✦ Death
Though Concavenator are not overtly emotional, some mourning behaviors have been observed. If a gang member dies near the group, others linger around the body, offering quiet huffs or gentle nudges. Particularly close companions or bonded mates may lay near the body for some time, guarding it from scavengers or simply keeping vigil before eventually moving on.
Trinkets left behind by the fallen are sometimes carried off by surviving members - kept, perhaps, as temporary comfort.
When a Concavenator senses that their end is near - be it from age, injury, or illness - they quietly distance themselves from the group.
It is not uncommon for an elder to retreat to a favored basking site, especially near water, where they remain until passing. Others might leave entirely, wandering off during the night to find a secluded place to die alone.
Bild
Concavenator do not have leaders in their groups, and follow any individual that has proven to be experienced, or knows their routes well.
Despite being semi-aquatic, Concavenator spend most of their time on land, only returning to water when fishing, playing, diving for trinkets, cooling down or basking on their shores. They also use water during hunts and escaping from dangerous situations.
Concavenator has no courtship grounds, but returns to Sharptooth Marsh specifically to build their nests and produce offspring.
Most of Concavenator fights are personal space defence.
Concavenator may hunt other players if 75% or below hunger in the nesting grounds.
 
Bild
Concavenators' feeding strategy is chunking bodies. This is mandatory. 
The feeding order is first-come, first-served. Concavenators do not challenge eachother for feeding rights, they must chunk and eat while holding the meat. The chunks must be eaten, and cannot be left lying around or gifted to other Concavenators that are present.
Albinos must be aggressed or cannibalized on sight. Even offspring that shed into a color that looks like Albinism will be devoured when identified.
Hoarding - Concavenator with a trinket will readily defend their personal space if another enters within 1 body length. Hoarding is required in this profile. Edible items do not count as trinkets.
Personal Rivals - These fights are not considered challenges or hunts and are fought as 1 on 1 battles. If a personal rival survives the initial engagement, they must be kicked from the group if they lose. Upon seeing the personal rival next time, the process is repeated.
Those above 75% hunger in a group must be replaced by a hunter under 75% if there is one. 4.1
Concavenator can third party any engagement that comes within 2 body lengths of their water. Rule 3
Offspring who resist being chased out by their parents may be engaged with by the whole gang. 1.3
Opposite sex pairs may cannibalize orphans who are caught sneaking into their nest. 8.4
Concavenator are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 22:07
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 02:41
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Medium Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Carnivore
Concavenator can group up to 8 sub/adults with unlimited offspring and unlimited adoptees. The group, known as a gang, does not have a specific leader and members follow those who are the most experienced.
Concavenator are avoidant of their own kind when outside Sharptooth Marsh, and tolerant within their nesting grounds at Sharptooth Marsh.
Concavenator can have up to 4 in an engagement or hunting party.
Concavenator may hunt up to solo Apex tier, excluding sauropods. Only Solitary Concavenator scavenge.
Concavenator love hoarding trinkets. Some individuals prefer keeping everything they come across and stash them out in little caverns or dug out holes along shores or marshy areas. Some carry around single trinkets for days or even weeks on end, and can be extremely picky about letting anyone near them while holding onto their belongings.
Concavenator are extremely possessive and selfish individuals.

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 2100
Adjusted Stats: - No changes

Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?