Allosaurus
    "Allo"
Allosaurus is a versatile, hardy theropod with a preference for arid environments, capable of surviving in these climates both in groups and alone due to their confidence in hunting a wide variety of prey. Being naturally tolerant to other species, Allosaurus find joy in following other creatures from a distance, observing their patterns and behaviours. Allosaurus travel long distances at night, and prefer to seek shelter in caves or underbrush during the brightest hours of the day.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: YeahokayitsEDEN & CrownlessCrow
Photo: Byuul
Profile inspired by asiatic lions, caracals, bobcats, and creative liberty.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2026-Beyond

Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.08.2026 19:01
Overview
 
Bild
Large Nocturnal Terrestrial Carnivore
Allosaurus form temporary  pairbonds. Sometimes, these develop into strong pairbonds.
Allosaurus are sedentary. However, they are territorial towards other Allosaurus, and will not tolerate them in the same POI if wishing to hunt or nest.
Allosaurus have an aggressive nature towards other Allosaurus, but are tolerant towards other species.
Allosaurus are not scavengers.
Allosaurus may tolerate or shun mutated individuals, dependent on individual preference. Unrelated Albino Allosaurus are always shunned from groups.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Allosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic, DRM Mela, DRM Pied Anaconda, DRM Pseudo Mela, DRM Leucistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 2 Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees (however, only females or pairs with females adopt)

This group is known as a pair.

or:

Up to 3 Sub/Adults, consisting of a pair and 1 Sub/Adult offspring; or three siblings of any sex; or unrelated individuals of all the same sex.
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees (however, only females or groups with females adopt)

This group is known as a coalition.
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 3 Sub/Adults may work together in defense, challenges, and hunts.
In groups of 2+, Allosaurus may hunt Apex tier.
Adolescents do not take part in hunts alongside adults.
A solitary Allosaurus may hunt up to Large tier.
Up to 3 related adolescents may hunt Small tier.
Adults do not assist in these hunts, but 1 Adult may defend if the engagement continues after an adolescent's forfeit.

Preferred Prey
Before hunting, Allosaurus must challenge ungrouped Allosaurus in line of sight or that are knowingly within the POI, whether solitary or grouped. They drive these rivals out of the POI to maintain their hunting rights.
Solitary Allosaurus may hunt up to Large tier and below. 2+ Allosaurus may hunt up to Apex tier.
All Allosaurus prioritize Adolescent and below Amargasaurus and Apatosaurus before all other prey options, whether they’re attended or not.
Solitary Allosaurus are not required to hunt protected or Adolescent Apatosaurus offspring before all other prey, but may try if they wish.
Next, Allosaurus must prioritize Stegosaurus, Kentrosaurus, and Miragaia.
Then, Allosaurus must prioritize any Large or Apex herbivores within LOS, if they are able to.
If neither option is available, Allosaurus may hunt anything up to Apex. Solitary Allosaurus may only hunt up to Large tier.
Allosaurus males may cannibalize unrelated, unprotected Allosaurus offspring of Adolescent and below.
Allosaurus do not hunt solitary adult Quetzalcoatlus.
Allosaurus do not hunt each other.
However, Allosaurus are not wasteful, and will feed from an Allosaurus body if one is available.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 1 🥚﻿ per 4 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 4 hours.
Allosaurus nest in dense foliage, caves, or hollow trees.
Allosaurus may form same-sex pairs, but may not nest. Female Allosaurus may adopt.
Physical Dimorphism
This profile does not have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Allosaurus females are uniform in color, having no bright flashes of color on their faces, crests, or necks.
♂️ Allosaurus males have bright colors on their faces, crests, or necks.
Physical dimorphism for Allosaurus is mandatory.
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Allosaurus offspring, known as cubs, are born altricial, feeble, and fragile, carefully tended to by their doting mothers from the moment they hatch. They are blind and deaf, only able to identify their mother and siblings through scent.
However, with steady feedings and encouraging nudges from their mother, cubs soon open their eyes and begin to move around on wobbly legs, showcasing mobility by the time they are mid-hatchling.
Cubs quickly began to run and trot, often careening straight into nearby objects - whether it be their mother or a wall. This often results in bumped snouts and frequent cries from the cubs, which their mother is quick to soothe.
Once cubs are steady on their feet, mothers ferry them out into the world under the darkness of night for their first visit to fresh water.
Cubs eagerly explore a few body lengths around their mother during this trip, investigating and scratching their claws against trees, branches on the grounds, and rocks. 
The sound and feeling of their claws scratching on rock often frightens young cubs - where they quickly barrel back to their mother to be soothed once more.
Once cubs have proven that they are able to keep up with their mother, they are introduced to their father, if he is a part of the group. While tolerant, he remains rather aloof with his offspring, permitting their mother to do much of the childrearing as he watches from a distance.
Cubs often play games of chase, practice stalking, ambushing, and partake in non-physical playfights between themselves.
During these playfights, cubs never land their attacks on siblings – with the game only ever being a fierce, often loud, posturing match.
Cubs always return to their mother first when frightened, hungry, or otherwise in need of comfort.
By the time that cubs are adolescent, they have massively increased in size, strength, confidence, and capability. Mothers begin to train their cubs to hunt critters, encouraging them to hunt larger targets as they continue to develop their skills.
After taking down their first few critters, cubs are encouraged to fend for themselves. Leaner and quicker than their adult counterparts, adolescents unite with their siblings to bring down small tier prey and unattended babies of other species.
Parents do not help in these hunts at all, and are often elsewhere within the POI, hunting for themselves or ensuring the area stays clear of threat.
If at any point, the adolescents deem the hunt too dangerous, or are hunted themselves, cubs are quick to forfeit and flee, broadcasting loudly to alert their parents if the hunted choose to continue pursuing them.
In order to be protected, the cubs must have already forfeited the engagement on their side through heart calling (:heart_call:) the other party. 
Cubs must make this obvious to the parents by affectionate or fear calling again once the parents arrive to witness the ongoing engagement.
Adolescents are notoriously bad at relaxing, and frequently get bored without stimulation for long periods of time. When not hunting, cubs taunt and pester their siblings instead, using them as props to practise biting and clawing, no longer restricting themselves to purely vocal confrontations. These scuffles quickly turn aggressive and disruptive, so much so that parents travel across the POI simply to scold them for being too loud.
As cubs mature, they will notice parents focusing their attention onto them once more, particularly during their brief check-ins. Adolescents catch on quickly on what behaviour results in the most affectionate, and which behaviors are reprimanded, working efficiently to receive continuous praise whenever in their presence.
By Sub-Adult, it becomes clear who the favored cub is. Siblings do not hold resentment once this is revealed, instead focusing their energy on bonding with their other rejected siblings - often forming a dispersal group that leaves together.
At this stage, offspring have matured into most of their adult mass, and no longer maintain the small, slender bodies built for targeting small species. Their hunting focus changes, conforming to the species their parents and other adult Allosaurus prefer.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned Allosaurus, upon having opened their eyes at juvenile, suddenly find themselves void of a parental figure. Without the gentle nudging of a parent, they rise to their feet on their own esteem, and begin helplessly searching nearby foliage for signs of their family.
Unsteady on their feet - and far more rushed in their first steps than parented individuals - cubs often end up significantly more battered and bruised as a result. They frequently slip off small ledges, crash into objects and trip over their own feet, slowly growing quieter after each unheard cry.
With no kin to familiarise themselves with, comfort for an orphaned Allosaurus often lies in the smell of the environment around where they first hatched. This association ends up channeling into a preference towards those POIs later in life.
At times, orphans may be lucky enough to be discovered by a tolerant female, securing themselves a relatively normal upbringing afterwards.
For others, once realization has settled in, cubs cease searching for their lost family, and begin focusing purely on survival. Orphaned Allosaurus begin hunting critters from a younger age, and take this time to practise skills like stalking and ambushing an unsuspecting target.
Sometimes, unattended babies of other species may be mistaken for critters, receiving the exact same treatment and hunted as a result.
Threats are fled from as soon as they are heard. At other times, these orphans may choose to observe active hunts from cover, assessing techniques and strategies, and documenting them for their own attempts.
In adolescence, cubs expand their hunting capabilities to include small tiers, having grown more comfortable with hunting alone.
As orphaned Allosaurus continue to age, they maintain their solitary nature. Fiercely independent, orphans end up extremely hesitant to accept the company of other Allosaurus, and may go out of their way to present as unappealing to suitors.
Even when acquainted with others, orphaned Allosaurus typically only enjoy the presence of their mate and bonded offspring. Only in rare cases do they tolerate being in a group of unrelated Allosaurus.
Bild
Allosaurus is a powerful theropod that roams through arid and semi-arid regions, favoring biomes with shallow waters and suitable foliage to conceal themselves both day and night.
Allosaurus is most active at night, leaving claw marks along trees and rocks as they pass through their territories.
As a nocturnal creature, Allosaurus spend a significant amount of the daytime sleeping in underbrush and caves as they wait for nightfall. Reclusive spots are most ideal, as Allosaurus avoids sleeping out in the open.
Allosaurus is a generally tolerant carnivore and does not often show aggression towards other species if disinterested in a hunt.
Allosaurus favors the dry season, when marshes become humid and warm.
Due to their affinity for drier regions, Allosaurus is hardy and able to go long periods of time without drinking water. They often drink large quantities during dusk and dawn, before beginning their travels.
During the rainy season, Allosaurus grow disgruntled by the shift in temperature and the near-constant downpour, often seeking out caves or overhangs that offer relief from the rain.
Allosaurus has large claws and powerful arms, prone to inspecting their surroundings with their front limbs and grasping onto any kills they’ve secured.
Alongside their hardy nature, Allosaurus is able to digest the flesh and meat of Metriacanthosaurus, and are not warded off by the bright scales of this carnivore.
Allosaurus relies mostly on sight and scent to get around, and are more prone to deafness at a young age, though this does not usually inhibit their ability to survive.
Allosaurus is remarkably resilient, known to heal from deep wounds and broken bones quickly with appropriate rest and care.
✦ Downtime behaviour
During the daytime, Allosaurus are often found relaxing and sleeping. Caves, shaded overhangs, and dense shrubbery away from common pathways are sought out.
Allosaurus can be fitful sleepers and often readjust their sleeping positions multiple times throughout the day. Some Allosaurus may fall asleep with their head hanging downwards, before relaxing into their usual lay.
During dawn and dusk, Allosaurus can often be found relaxing at water sources, drinking heavily prior to spending the day sleeping, or the nighttime searching for prey.
Allosaurus may move and travel during dawn and dusk, but do not hunt outside their active hours.
Bild
Allosaurus, when meeting other Allosaurus, take their time to assess potential interest in grouping up or courtship. Interactions are based on the tolerance and interest of each Allosaurus involved.
While Allosaurus most often group with those that benefit them, individuals may find themselves going back to or remaining with familiar company, their temporary bonds shifting into strong pairbonds with another individual over time through successful hunts or raising offspring.
A full group, though lacking the space for more members, may pause before challenging other Allosaurus to consider courtship opportunities, which they will disperse for if successful.
Those not looking to expand their numbers, or not interested in courtship, turn to aggression if looking to secure hunting and/or nesting rights for the POI. Further information can be found in Aggressive Behavior.
If uninterested in staying within a POI, Allosaurus instead choose to leave the POI once challenged out, knowing better than to seek out unnecessary conflict.
If simply passing through, and not looking to hunt or nest, other Allosaurus are tolerated from a distance.
If an Allosaurus is interested in potentially grouping up or courting another, then individuals remain quiet upon greeting, observing the other and avoiding any actions that may come across as aggression.
Once mutual interest has been established through shared silence, Allosaurus begin approaching with slow, calculated steps, directing themselves into an open space where they are clearly visible to one another.
If assessing for courtship opportunities - and part of a larger group - then only the interested Allosaurus from the group steps forward.
If no immediate hostility follows, Allosaurus raise their claws to the side, signalling their interest by exposing their chest, and trilling softly (:question_emote:); presenting themselves as not a threat. The other Allosaurus replicates this gesture to indicate the same message.
After, both Allosaurus cautiously close the distance to further investigate, taking their time to inspect each other - and, if happy with what they see, exchange friendly calls to showcase their acceptance.
If at any point during the process an individual loses interest, they ward the other Allosaurus away with aggressive calls, withdrawing their tolerance.
This aggression may escalate to either party beginning a challenge for the POI, or simply fleeing to avoid further escalation.
✦ Pairs
Within pairs, bickering and spats rarely occur. These groupings usually consist of a courted or currently courting Allosaurus, and such individuals learn to control their outbursts as to avoid rejection.
Frequently chattering and purring when in one another's company, a pair is relatively quiet in absence of the other.
Trophies from kills and scraps of food are left for the other or exchanged directly. These acts of sharing and gift-giving contribute immensely to accelerating their courtship process.
Allosaurus in pairs often initiate games of play with each other, chasing and nipping at each other's tails. Newer pairs often practice stalking and hunting critters together, building an understanding of each other’s strategies, and simulating how coordinated they will be in a hunt.
✦ Coalitions
With coalitions consisting of a pair and their favored offspring, the selected offspring enjoys the attention both parents lavish them in. Trophies are often left to this offspring, who proudly carries it around for as long as they remain interested in it.
Coalitions consisting of siblings and unrelated individuals are much more competitive with each other, often frequently bickering over trophies, scraps of meat, and rushing to claim the best sleeping spots.
If one Allosaurus lays in a spot another wishes to have, it is common that they will sit on top of or near the individual in an attempt to get them to move, effectively acting as an inconvenience to the other.
In Allosaurus groupings, coalitions are the loudest, often getting into spars and posturing matches between each other.
Sparring between Allosaurus is swift and decisive, continually moving around their opponent as they swipe claws and teeth at each other’s sides. These scuffles can start for any reason, though are often engaged with the purpose of testing each other’s strength - or to settle a dispute.
To begin a spar, Allosaurus position themselves in front of their chosen opponent and stare them down, clawing at the air menacingly as they hiss out aggressive calls.
Should their actions be mirrored by the other, a spar will begin after a short period of posturing. Spars conclude once one individual reaches half health, or decides to move away and disengage before then.
Some Allosaurus do not accept these challenges and instead turn their back and ignore the aggressing groupmate, often sitting in place to convey their refusal. This gesture is always respected by the other Allosaurus… despite the frustration it can cause.
✦ Solitary Behavior
Many Allosaurus - particularly orphans - opt to remain solitary, sometimes for the entirety of their life.
These individuals do not find any difficulty in surviving alone, and take solace in their independence.
At times, solitary Allosaurus may tolerate temporarily grouping with other Allosaurus, especially if they have failed to successfully hunt large prey for several days, or wish to nest.
These occurrences are brief, typically only lasting a few days. Once the solitary Allosaurus feels they have achieved their goal, they will disperse from their group, often without even a goodbye.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Albino Allosaurus have a significantly increased chance of being born deaf, or developing deafness in their youth.
Albino Allosaurus are strictly avoided by other Allosaurus, and forced into a solitary lifestyle due to their sickly appearance.
Nested in Albino Allosaurus are hesitantly accepted by their family, but are typically the last choice when it comes to grouping. Rarely ever are they favored by a nesting pair, or a sibling’s choice in a dispersal companion.
Though accepted by family, these individuals are treated as inferior, and are discouraged from joining in hunts or partaking in spars.
All other mutations are tolerated, though those straying outside of typical dimorphism - such as melanistic male Allosaurus - face additional difficulties in courtship, and sometimes struggle to find a mate at all.
Bild
Allosaurus display aggression towards others of their kind when intending to hunt or nest within the POI. Rivals are challenged with a territory challenge to win the right to hunt or nest.
If simply passing through a POI, Allosaurus are not required to aggress its own kind, but will not voluntarily remain within the POI for long periods of time.
However, if aggressed by others, they must opt to flee if they do not wish to fight for the right to remain in the POI.
✦ Territory Challenges
Allosaurus may challenge other Allosaurus at any time of day.
Those that are uninterested in courtship, and unable or unwilling to group with other Allosaurus, resort to aggressively challenging out rivals if intending to hunt or nest within the POI.
Even when the odds look to be against them, all Allosaurus - including solitary individuals - are perfectly capable of responding with aggression in an attempt to intimidate and push out others of its species, and engage in what may otherwise be an unfair fight.
These challenges are fierce and extremely risky for all involved. Allosaurus claws and teeth are made to tear through dense hides, with fatalities occurring more often after the fight has concluded due to blood loss and infection.
Allosaurus may forfeit challenges against their own species through affectionate calls, fear calls, or a combination of the two.
Once one side forfeits, the winning side may escort their wounded rivals out of the POI to ensure they leave.
If unsure about going against multiple rivals, or simply uninterested in remaining within POI, individuals may flee instead rather than risk injury.
✦ Within Groups
While rare, Allosaurus may express aggression towards their own packmates. Disagreements may split apart a group temporarily, or at times, permanently.
Aggression can spark in response to a variety of conditions, though commonly occur from having their personal space invaded too frequently, stress that comes with raising offspring, discomfort in unsuitable temperatures and environment, or hunger.
These spats are typically kept to posturing and hisses, and tail swings directed in the offender's space. Occasionally, they may swat at each other with their claws, with continuous actions causing the other individual to react in a similar fashion.
These disagreements do not severely injure any individual involved. Only a small number of attacks will intentionally land before both Allosaurus move away.
Over-aggression within a group is not tolerated, as Allosaurus are quick to shun and separate from those they do not get along with.
An over-aggressive Allosaurus may be challenged out of the POI if they fail to leave the group alone after being exiled out.
✦ Infanticide
Allosaurus males will seek to kill unrelated and unprotected Allosaurus of adolescent and below.
If at any point, the young Allosaurus becomes protected, the male will give up their attempt.
A 15 minute infanticide timer applies after every attempt, regardless of whether it was successful or unsuccessful.
Bild
Allosaurus are a curious species, and do not often display aggression towards other species unless there is reason to, such as protecting personal space.
Allosaurus may follow other species from a distance to observe them, peering at their odd habits and ways of communication.
If woken up by another species, Allosaurus may be momentarily intrigued by it, before returning to sleep.
✦ Quetzalcoatlus
Allosaurus have adapted to recognize the stalking behaviors of Quetzalcoatlus. They understand that the large pterosaur has a habit of following herbivore herds, and Allosaurus are quick to investigate if they notice the aerial carnivore hovering in the skies.
Allosaurus do not hunt solitary, adult Quetzalcoatlus, and tolerate them enough to allow scavenging. Quetzalcoatlus in pairs or more are not tolerated and are aggressed away from kills.
Otherwise, Allosaurus will still aggress these carnivores away if they enter their personal space in the absence of a fresh corpse.
Allosaurus may still contest for a body down owned by Quetzalcoatlus, and may eat from a Quetzalcoatlus body down.
✦ Argentinosaurus
Allosaurus, while unable to take on the sheer size of Argentinosaurus, often find themselves entranced by their similarity to other sauropods. They remain rooted in place, their eyes fixated on what they could only imagine to be a meal that would’ve sustained them for many seasons.
Those braver may approach the sauropod slowly, staring up at the creature. Should the Argentinosaurus approach or attempt to interact, Allosaurus will break through their haze and retreat, aware that they are incapable of taking down such a creature.
Bild
Allosaurus hunt only during the night time, and find most success in stalking and ambushing their prey. They often seek out prey together, stalking quietly throughout the night, hoping to avoid creating too much sound and alerting a potential target.
Allosaurus must challenge out other ungrouped Allosaurus that are knowingly in the POI, whether solitary or grouped, in order to hunt.
Allosaurus must hunt Adolescent and below Apatosaurus or Amargasaurus before all other species, whether they are attended or not. These young sauropods are an easy meal, and favoured for that reason.
Solitary Allosaurus do not have to target protected or Adolescent Apatosaurus if they do not wish to.
Allosaurus will then target stegosaurids if these sauropod young are unavailable, typically attempting to catch these species by surprise before they can react. Even solitary, Allosaurus will attempt this, and are usually nimble enough to avoid the sharp tails swinging in their direction.
If these options are not available, then pairs and coalitions will opt to target any Large or Apex herbivores within LOS before attempting other options.
Grouped Allosaurus may hunt Apex carnivores.
If Adolescent and below Apatosaurus or Amargasaurs are not available, solitary Allosaurus may hunt prey options of Large tier and below.
Allosaurus do not hunt solitary adult Quetzalcoatlus.
Adolescent Allosaurus may only hunt up to small tier.
When potential prey is located, Allosaurus grow silent, crouching low to the ground, and tucking themselves behind foliage and rocks. Most Allosaurus will look for a creature that is alone or sleeping, hoping to make an easy kill.
If unable to ambush, or simply finding preference in not doing so, Allosaurus may take the opportunity to rush their prey instead, attempting to inflict as many wounds as possible before the prey has had a chance to react.
Each Allosaurus develops a different method of hunting most suitable for their needs, but above all else, Allosaurus typically prefer to bleed out their prey rather than relying on blunt force.
Once a kill has been made, Allosaurus feast collectively, rarely bickering between themselves in regards to feeding order. If there is a trophy, Allosaurus take turns inspecting and playing with it, before eventually leaving it behind, or allowing someone within the group to claim it as their own.
Allosaurus may tolerate Small tier and below scavengers, at their own discretion. Solitary Adult Quetzalcoatlus are always tolerated.
Bild
✦ Courtship
Though criteria differs between individuals, Allosaurus are most keen on individuals who showcase independence and competency when seeking out a mate. Those capable of providing for themselves without issue translates to a mate that is able to provide for a family with more ease than others. As such, solitary individuals often receive a surprisingly high amount of attention from others.
Allosaurus are commonly known to be fickle when it comes to choosing a mate, but extremely devoted once that choice has been made.
Once a female and a male has entered the courting stage, they may group up in-game as a pair.
Females become increasingly persistent once they are interested in nesting. They walk side by side, in front of, and trail behind a chosen male, doing all they can to remain in his personal space. At moments of pause, females continue their pestering behavior by rubbing their face against the male's side and neck, purring frequently.
This behavior persists for several hours, often acting as a major distraction to the male. Some females end up completely ignoring hunting opportunities or threats in favour of continuing to passively court, much to the frustration of the male.
Males that start to lose interest begin to politely reject this persistence, continuing to avoid and swerve the female's attempts, and creating distance where possible - sometimes even using trees and rocks as a barrier. Though disheartening, this behavior is not a rejection, and a female may still attempt to win the male over through continuous efforts.
If a male grows annoyed with a female's attempts, and loses all interest in courtship with her, he will opt to defend his personal space once more, calling aggressively to ward her away. This is a clear sign of rejection, and females - though disappointed - always respect this.
After this stage, the pair will split off from one another, seeking their previous groups or returning to a solitary lifestyle.
Otherwise, males charmed by a female’s behavior slowly begin to reciprocate her actions, pacing himself to walk side by side with her, and returning her purring calls.
Males who continue to maintain an interest in courtship finalize their choice by initiating a game of chase. With a light nip to the female’s tail, males flee in the opposite direction, calling affectionately to encourage her into chasing him. The game continues for a long while, with both individuals taking turns to chase after, and flee from the other.
At last, when play is considered complete, individuals come face to face, leaning forward to rub alongside each other's face and neck, symbolizing complete acceptance of the other.
After this point, the pair are inseparable, walking side by side at all times, even if it means squeezing past tight spaces or stumbling over each other's feet. The female typically leads during this period, seeking out a suitable den site to raise offspring within.
✦ Same-Sex Courtship
Allosaurus interested in same-sex courtship display the same courtship behavior as an opposite-sex pair. One individual will begin to follow and pursue the other to display their interests.
These pairs cannot nest, but female pairs may adopt.
Orphans adopted by female pairs may be considered related. If adopting multiple orphans, a female pair may select a favored child to keep around, much like an opposite-sex pairing would.
Same-sex pairs may still allow a third unrelated individual to group with them.
✦ Nesting
Allosaurus nest in dense foliage, caves, and hollow trees.
The female will complete courtship by guiding her mate to a den site of her choice, inviting him to investigate and approve of the location chosen.
If both Allosaurus are satisfied with the selection, then the pair will begin preparing for offspring.
Once a densite has been agreed upon, ungrouped Allosaurus are no longer tolerated in the POI, and must be challenged out upon sight, regardless of whether or not the odds may not be in the pair’s favor.
The female will put her focus in securing the den site, ensuring her nest is plush and warm for the fragile young, and that the surrounding area is free of anything that may harm them.
The male aids by beginning to patrol further out from the den site. His duty is staying alert for threats that may risk the safety of the upcoming clutch, and returning with food to fill the nest with.
If the pair already have a chosen offspring grouped with them, the offspring may choose between helping their mother prepare the nest site, or patrolling with their father.
If other Allosaurus are spotted in the area, the nesting group will attempt to collect all their members before challenging the rivals out of the POI.
✦ Parenthood
Once eggs have hatched, the presence of cubs results in a hormonal change within the female Allosaurus, in which she no longer tolerates the male near her nest. She will react with aggression if he attempts to approach the nest or enter the den site, biting and clawing if she must to get the message across.
If the pair already have a chosen offspring grouped with them, then her tolerance will depend on their sex.
Female offspring are tolerated within the den site and by the nest, and often encouraged to look after her younger siblings.
Male offspring are condemned to the same treatment as their father, and kept away from the nest, expected to aid in patrolling the territory instead.
Mothers often refuse to leave the den site for days at a time, focusing all their time and energy in caring for their cubs.
However, if alerted to a groupmate being attacked, mothers are permitted to leave the den to assist in their defence. They cannot leave the den to join in on hunts.
Fathers are expected to continue patrolling the surrounding area, and bring back meals for his mate, leaving them at the entrance of the den site before quickly retreating, so as not to provoke further attacks.
Once cubs have reached mid-hatchling, the mother’s guarded instincts begin to relax and stabilise, especially when the cubs begin running and playing.
She will first wait for night-time before guiding her cubs out of the den site for the very first time, quietly leading them to the nearest source of fresh water. The father will either follow from a distance, or remain waiting at the den site for their safe return.
Male Allosaurus, upon witnessing the success of the clutch, may choose to abandon their family at this stage, having deemed himself as free to roam once more. This is only ever seen between pairs that have formed a temporary pairbond to nest, and more commonly seen in orphaned or solitary individuals.
If the father does not abandon his family, then cubs will be introduced to him after their fresh water visit, with intense supervision conducted by the mother.
The father is expected to remain as non-threatening as possible. By either sitting or crouching, he must remain almost perfectly still, with only occasional slow movements of his head permitted when he inspects his young.
If a cub is at all spooked, she will first comfort the cub, before turning her irritation back to the father, warning him with a hiss - and more, if necessary. Once the mother is satisfied with her mate’s temperament, she will call to him softly, providing him the freedom to move around the den site as he pleases once more.
Fathers do not take much interest in their offspring despite the introduction, nor are they expected to provide them with much care.
Should the mother die at any point, the father takes no interest in childrearing, and abandons his offspring.
At adolescence, both parents reward the offspring with greater independence, and begin distancing themselves from the clutch.
Mothers take the time to encourage young cubs to practise hunting on small critters, rewarding any effort with affection, and continue to encourage this behaviour by stealing their catches away from them.
Once she is satisfied with their progress, she loosens her supervision of them, focussing on patrolling the POI more often. Parents understand that rival Allosaurus, particularly males, will not turn down the chance to cull or chase out adolescent Allosaurus, and as such, must work tirelessly to ensure the territory remains safe.
Parents rarely linger by their offspring at this stage, conducting only brief check-ins when passing by, or if they hear the cubs crying for help in the distance.
Particularly noisy cubs are scolded for this reason and warned against making noise, with parents growing frustrated upon realizing their rush was for nothing. Despite this, they will never ignore their cub’s call for help.
If parents return to find their cubs in danger, be it due to a rival male Allosaurus or a hunt gone wrong, only 1 parent may step forward to defend the cubs. 
In order to protect cubs during a hunt, the cubs must have already forfeited the engagement on their side through affectionate calling the other party. 
Cubs must make this obvious to the parent by affectionate or fear calling again once the parent arrives to witness the ongoing engagement.
The parent may step in to defend the cub immediately after recognizing this fact.
This limit does not apply to engagements where cubs are hunted by Medium Tier and above species. All Sub-Adults/Adults within a group may come to the defence of an adolescent in this instance.
If the territory is lost while offspring are being raised, then outcomes vary based on the cub’s ages.
*If offspring have not reached mid-hatchling, or can not be easily collected on the way out, then they are abandoned.
Parents are not allowed to double back into the territory to collect their offspring, or remain stationary in a single location to do so. Offspring must be able to meet and/or follow their parents after forfeit to be safely escorted out.
If abandoned, offspring must find their own way back to their family, either through following any remaining scent, or being collected by the parents once the territory has been won back.
Adolescents are considered a separate group from their parents during territory challenges if separated from them. In the circumstance that parents lose a territory challenge, and have no way of alerting the Adolescents, then the Adolescents may remain in the territory until they realize, or are challenged out themselves.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Once cubs have matured to sub-adult, parents return to conduct a final inspection of them.
If the pair do not have a favored offspring with them already, they may select a single cub to continue travelling alongside them. Often, this is the cub who has shown the most potential, but preferences may be different between individuals.
Otherwise, offspring are ushered away with gentle nudges and affectionate shakes, encouraged to disperse and continue their independence elsewhere.
Persistent offspring who refuse to leave are met with increasingly harsher aggressive calls. Once the offspring receives the message and begins to disperse, the interaction is soothed over with one last distant affectionate call from the parents.
✦ Adoption
Allosaurus females may adopt, but must be quick in their decision, especially if grouped with or close to males.
Males do not adopt, and may cannibalise unrelated Allosaurus of adolescence and below, even with a female nearby. If the female defends the cub from him, he will begrudgingly back down.
Female Allosaurus can remain defensive of the adoptee towards males in their group if she deems him a risk, eyeing the male and placing her body between him and the offspring.
Bild
Aging Allosaurus primarily experience issues navigating complex terrain, and begin to lose their hearing.
Elderly Allosaurus are much quicker to concede in challenges for territory, exhaustion wearing them down quicker than any rival could.
These individuals prefer to remain within a pair or coalition, finding the companionship more beneficial to securing meals, and receiving protection.
The pursuit of adult sauropods is daunting to these aging and scared individuals, no longer as agile as they once were.
Other grouped members often adapt to this change in energy by slowing down or resting more, but otherwise do not treat the aged individual any differently.
✦ Death
Once an Allosaurus realizes it is dying, they disperse from their group, and begin traveling alone to seek out quiet caves or places of familiarity to have their final rest in.
Partners or close relatives may follow from a distance despite this, comforting the dying Allosaurus in their last moments.
Allosaurus who have died during a hunt are investigated by their companions, and if given the chance, eaten as well. Though mourning may follow for days after, Allosaurus prioritise their own survival above all else.
Bild
Same-sex Allosaurus pairs may still permit a third, unrelated individual to group with them to form a coalition.
Once offspring have dispersed, though they may be recognized, they are largely regarded as rivals, and kept at the same distance as other Allosaurus.
Allosaurus are extremely quiet when showing interest in a stranger.
Allosaurus within coalitions may spar with each other, while pairs do not.
Bild
Allosaurus males may commit infanticide on adolescent and below unrelated, unattended offspring, but must stop once they become protected, or the engagement is lost through typical hunting forfeits. This is not considered a hunt, but a 15 minute timer does still apply towards infanticide.
Allosaurus seeking courtship outside their current groupings will leave their in-game group once the courtship process has started to group with their potential partner. Allosaurus may seek out and re-join their previous groupings after courting and nesting has taken place.
In order to nest, Allosaurus will become territorial, and must push out their former groupmates if still found in the area. They may travel to a new POI if wishing to avoid this conflict.
Adopted offspring are considered related and are permitted to stay with their parents once they reach Sub/Adult should they be a favored offspring.
RULE EXEMPTIONS
Allosaurus are permitted to travel between POIs during dawn and dusk. Allosaurus are also able to challenge other Allosaurus for rights to a POI and to defend their territory during the daytime. 1.4
This does not permit Allosaurus to stalk prey outside their active hours.
Allosaurus are able to challenge other Allosaurus in unpreferred POIs if looking to hunt there. 1.5
When adolescent Allosaurus forfeit a hunt and are then being hunted, or are fleeing from an infanticide attempt, 1 parent may step in to defend the offspring, regardless of when the engagement began. This parent is acting as a defender and must stop once the other side forfeits. 3.2.1, 4.8.2.3
Allosaurus do not gain a species timer on their own species after a territory challenge. 3.9
If adult Allosaurus who have offspring are challenged out of a territory, and the offspring are not nearby or capable of following the parent out of the POI, then the offspring may be treated as a separate group. 6.7.2
Allosaurus that have adults and adolescents within the same group may have up to 2 simultaneous engagements - with adolescents hunting separately from the adult group. In the case that both parties receive a body down, they must each remain with their own body down. 3.4
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.08.2026 19:08
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Allosaurus are Large Nocturnal Terrestrial Carnivores.
Allosaurus can group up to 3 sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees.
Allosaurus are tolerant towards other species and aggressive towards other Allosaurus.
Allosaurus can have up to 3 in an engagement or hunting party.
Allosaurus may hunt up to Apex tier when in a pair or coalition. Solitary Allosaurus may hunt up to Large. Allosaurus may not scavenge.
Allosaurus are territorial to their own kind only if wishing to hunt or nest. They may inspect others cautiously before deciding to challenge them out.
Allosaurus will permit solitary Quetzalcoatlus to scavenge from fresh kills. Otherwise, they do not permit the aerial species in their space and are not friendly with them. 2+ Quetzalcoatlus are not tolerated scavenging from Allosaurus claimed bodies.
Allosaurus sleep during the brightest part of the day, often in caves, overhangs, or dense foliage.
Allosaurus females adopt. Females grouped with males sometimes make rushed decisions, adopting and protecting the offspring before the male discovers it alone.
Allosaurus are curious by nature and often follow other species at a distance.
Allosaurus have a preference for stalking and ambushing their prey when possible.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time: (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 30-45-60-45 = 180 total
Combat Weight: 3750
Adjusted Stats:
- Combat weight increased to 3750 from 3500
- Improved turn radius
- Reduced bleed heal rate
- Buffed speed during Adolescence
 
Quick Links
Top
Growing up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?