Leedsichthys
    "Leed"
Leedsichthys are massive filter-feeding pachycormid fish that live in the oceans of Riparia. Solitary in nature when adult, Leedsichthys fathers raise their offspring in massive batches, migrating alongside them and protecting them. Females, on the other hand, migrate on their own, temporarily forming bonds with others they come across in their travels.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Red, Kittyful, yeahokayitsEDEN, Zesty Filip, CrownlessCrow
Photo: CrownlessCrow
Profile inspired by bowfin, basking sharks, whale sharks and creative liberty.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04:14
Overview
Bild
Apex Cathemeral Aquatic Filter Feeder Carnivore.
Leedsichthys form promiscuous   bonds.
Leedsichthys are nomadic.
Leedsichthys have a passive nature.
Leedsichthys may not group with other species.
Leedsichthys tolerate mutated individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Leedsichthys include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
1 Sub/Adult
Unlimited Offspring (if parent is male)
Unlimited Adoptees (only when biological offspring are present with father, and same size as adoptees)

Groups are known as a nursery group when offspring are present.

Unlimited offspring may group together under Sub-Adult.

Large amounts of Sub/Adult Leedsichthys may migrate and feed alongside each other, but do not group in game.
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Predator Reaction: Defensive
Leedsichthys do not hunt other players.
Leedsichthys can have up to 1 in an engagement.
A father Leedsichthys may defend his offspring at any time.
Adolescents and below do not participate in defence and always choose to flee, unless cornered.

Preferred Diet
Leedsicthys exclusively feed from krill while travelling their migration paths.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: Females may lay up to 10 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: Females may lay up to 5 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
Female Leedsichthys may split their clutches between multiple males if they wish, so long as the egg count is not exceeded.
Nesting timers do not reset until the female Leedsichthys has given away all her eggs. See Courtship and Parenthood for more information.
Leedsichthys may form same-sex bonds. These bonds do not raise offspring together, but enjoy reuniting with one another and migrating alongside each other.

Physical Dimorphism
Leedsichthys have no physical dimorphism.
During courtship, males construct nests and display.
During courtship, females swim between the nests, choosing males that entice her.
 
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Leedsichthys babies, known as pups, enter the world already capable of swimming and feeding independently. Despite this independence, they remain closely gathered around their nest and father.
Immediately after hatching, pups wriggle free from the kelp nest constructed by their father, and slip into the water below.
Newly hatched pups have an instinct to remain close to their siblings, forming a tightly packed school formation almost immediately.
Rather than exploring alone, pups move together as one collective, with the movement of one individual triggering a mirror reaction from the rest of the group.
If one pup flees, the others follow, even if they have not detected the threat themselves.
Pups that suddenly find themselves without the safety of their siblings become distressed, and actively search for other young or their father.
During their earliest growth, pups remain extremely close to their father. They gather beneath, behind, and alongside him, using him as both a landmark and protection from any approaching predators.
Pups learn much of their early behavior by following both their father and one another. When their father begins to feed, the nursery group gathers around him and imitates his movements, gradually learning to identify more productive feeding waters.
Young Leedsichthys frequently initiate sudden bursts of movement during travels, causing their siblings to follow in what appears to be a playful game. Pups often repeatedly chase one another and race across different terrains.
Pups are extremely skittish towards unfamiliar species, but gradually lose this fear as they gain size.
As they approach adolescence, the juvenile schooling behavior begins to lessen. Individuals start to swim more independently, no longer mirroring the movements of the group as a whole.
By Sub-Adult, Leedsichthys disperse fully from their family and begin a solitary life. They may choose to continue to swim with familiar individuals for a while - or even indefinitely - while others drift away completely.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned Leedsichthys retain the same powerful schooling instincts as nested pups, but without a father or siblings to follow, they are considerably more nervous and vulnerable.
Lone pups are extremely skittish, rarely remaining in one place for long. They search the surrounding waters for other young Leedsichthys, frequently moving between feeding areas in the hopes of encountering a nursery group.
When frightened, orphaned pups rush to seek safety among terrain or dense vegetation. Without a father to retreat towards, they are much more likely to flee immediately from unfamiliar species.
When an orphan encounters a nursery group of Leedsichthys of a similar age and size, they immediately show interest in joining it.
The orphan begins following the movements of the group from a short distance, mirroring changes in direction and gradually moving closer until they incorporate themselves amongst the other pups.
Young Leedsichthys show little concern for whether or not a pup is related to them, and readily accept similarly-sized orphans into their group. Fathers, additionally, protect any young that merge with their nursery group.
Orphans sometimes encounter one another naturally. Two or more similarly-aged orphans may immediately begin schooling together, forming their own nursery group and permitting other orphans to join them as they discover them.
As orphans grow, their reliance on finding a family or siblings gradually diminishes. Hatchlings, juveniles and even young adolescents are firmly drawn towards others of their kind of a similar age, but larger Adolescents and above eventually accept and become content to travel alone.
At Sub-Adult, both orphaned and nested Leedsichthys are indistinguishable from one another in terms of behavior, with both dispensing into a solitary lifestyle natural to that of adults.
Bild
Leedsichthys are incredibly large, peaceful filter feeders that spend much of their lives slowly travelling through open waters, in search of productive feeding grounds with large amounts of krill.
Adult Leedsichthys are predominantly solitary. They are perfectly comfortable travelling for long periods without the company of their own species. Despite this - they are not antisocial, and readily tolerate other Leedsichthys that choose to travel alongside them.
Leedsichthys are highly migratory, and travel considerable distances in response to the availability of food. They rarely remain within unproductive waters for long, and readily abandon an area once available krill begins to decline.
When travelling, Leedsichthys conserve their energy, maintaining a slow and steady pace as low energy species. Sudden bursts of speed are uncommon outside of play behavior, courting, or escaping/challenging a threat.
Leedsichthys are naturally curious once they reach adulthood, particularly towards unfamiliar species and unusual disturbances. They investigate by slowly approaching or swimming alongside a subject - though keep enough distance to be able to move away comfortably.
This curiosity is passive rather than intrusive. They do not persistently pursue species that move away from them.
Their impressive size makes adult Leedsichthys relatively confident around smaller species. Others swimming close to them are generally ignored, provided they do not behave aggressively.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Leedsichthys sleep in short bursts, with no particular preference in where and when they choose to do so.
During sleep, Leedsichthys’ muscles, particularly around their jaw, loosen to ensure they do not asphyxiate during rest.
Pups eagerly take advantage of this behavior, and shelter within their father’s mouth during rest periods, hiding themselves away from opportunistic predators.
Bild
Adult Leedsichthys are predominantly solitary. They do not form structured groups or social hierarchies, and spend most of their lives migrating independently across open waters.
Individuals vary in their tolerance for companionship. Some are content to migrate alongside others for extended periods, while others actively prefer solitude, and avoid travelling with others of their kind.
Leedsichthys that choose to travel together do not group in game, and do not defend one another in engagements.
Companions may freely separate and go in different directions at any time. Leedsichthys do not attempt to prevent their companion from leaving, and separation causes little distress - even between individuals that have travelled together for long periods.
Outside of courtship and parenthood, Leedsichthys have little need for social interaction. Encounters between individuals are usually peaceful, with neither attempting to establish dominance over the other.
 
✦ Females
Females are observed to be generally more sociable than males, although there is still variation between individuals.
Some females develop a preference for travelling alongside another female, forming long lasting companionships as they migrate between feeding grounds.
Female companions often swim alongside or within sight of one another, following each other as they continue their migrations.
These bonds are passive and non-competitive. Neither female is dominant over the other, and either may determine the direction which she needs to travel.
Affection is loosely shown by parallel swimming, gentle nudges and bodily contact, and deliberately remaining near one another during rest periods.
Females express interest in anything that is brightly colored. Leedsichthys females will observe brightly colored species from a distance, even briefly bringing their heads above water to observe species that linger on the shore, or following behind other aquatic species that exhibit bright colors.
Objects, on the other hand, are picked up and collected in hoards. Females have particular favor for items that are colored similarly to males they have nested with, or those they have bonds with.
In relation to this behavior, females are observed occasionally breaching above the water in order to observe their surroundings and to spot bright colors.
✦ Males
Male Leedsichthys are generally more solitary than females, and are less likely to form travelling companionships with other adults.
Many males prefer to migrate entirely alone, and may create distance from other adult Leedsichthys that attempt to remain alongside them for extended periods.
Some individuals may exhibit a preference for a travelling companion, but this is rarer than seen in females.
✦ Mutated Behavior
Albino Leedsichthys are incredibly sensitive to light, with direct sunlight causing extreme discomfort, and prolonged exposure leading to permanent blindness.
As a result, Albino Leedsichthys live in near constant darkness, restricted to deep waters where sunlight barely filters through. These individuals rarely find the opportunity to travel communally with other Leedsichthys due to this.
Melanistic Leedsichthys face no difficulties.
Bild
Leedsichthys are not aggressive to one another, and any unwanted behaviors are handled by simply swimming away from the offender.
Frequent negative interactions with the same Leedsichthys may cause individuals to make a conscious choice in avoiding them for longer periods of time.
Leedsichthys rarely defend their personal space from other Leedsichthys when travelling communally, instead preferring to remain close together in order to deter predators and shelter young.
Bild
Leedsichthys are inherently interested in the activities of other species, often pausing their migrations to observe when something new comes into view.
Large and Apex aquatic species, like Deinosuchus, Sarcosuchus, Spinosaurus, are a common sight within the waters Leedsichthys inhabit. After initial  encounters, Leedsichthys eventually find their curiosity dimmed, preferring to place attention on species far more different than themselves.
Though curious, Leedsichthys never go out of their way to continue pestering a species if they have displayed clear discomfort or aggression, preferring to avoid confrontation where possible.
✦ Austroraptor & Concavenator
While usually treated with the same tolerance as other species, experienced fathers - or at times, Leedsichthys who have encountered these species in their youth - become much more cautious of them.
These nimble semi-aquatics are not one to turn down the opportunity of hunting a Leedsichthys pup, despite the size of accompanying adults.
✦ Tylosaurus
Tylosaurus are some of Leedsicthys’s most prominent predators, most specifically towards their offspring – but even full grown adult Leedsichthys are targeted.
Leedsichthys, especially those with offspring, aggressively reject the presence of Tylosaurus, even to the point of chasing away Tylosaurus offspring.
✦ Eurhinosaurus & Kaiwhekea
Eurhinosaurus and Kaiwhekea are two other primary predators of Leedsichthys offspring. Using their speed, they quickly catch up to schooling pups and indiscriminately catch and kill.
Female Leedsichthys outright kill any Eurhinosaurus or Kaiwhekea offspring upon discovery.
✦ Rhamphorhynchus
Leedsichthys are more than happy to receive a thorough scale cleaning from these small fishers, often drifting to sleep in the moment.
At times, Leedsichthys may often find themselves gifted with a foreign item during interactions with Rhamphorhynchus. Lacking sense and overcome with intrigue, Leedsichthys’ first reaction to these gifts are an attempt to consume them, with varying levels of success.
Bild
One Sub/Adult Leedsicthys may enter an engagement in defense of itself or grouped offspring.
Leedsicthys offspring of Adolescent and below always flee with other offspring within their nursery group, flocking together in order to form a school. Using their matching coloration and speed, offspring dart away from predators until they are out of sight. 
If a predator reaches the center of the school, the school will always part and flee in two separate directions.
All Leedsicthys offspring prioritize moving away from predators, not returning to their school or parent if separated.
Leedsichthys males - if their offspring are attacked - attempt to block the predator’s path or chase after it, though often this proves futile, as their large bodies struggle to keep up with more agile species.
Leedsichthys adults who are hunted often have no choice but to defend themselves. Using the force of their muscular tails and heads, they attempt to ward off their attackers.
The usually slower speed Leedsichthys maintains changes rapidly, able to curve and bend in on itself quickly, much to the surprise of predators who may assume an easy meal of Leedsichthys.
Leedsichthys is defensive in nature and has no need to continue a hunt that has been forfeit by a predator. 
If Leedsichthys is attacked near deeper waters, they may attempt to lure the fight further into the depths of the ocean as some creatures cannot remain submerged long enough to continue to pursue Leedsichthys - instead forced to return to the surface for air.
Leedsichthys offspring (Hatchling, Juvenile, and Adolescent) do not gain the tier of their parent when within two bodylengths of them.
Adolescent Leedsichthys are still considered Large tier. Hatchling and Juvenile Leedsichthys have no tier and can be hunted by any carnivorous species.
Bild
✦ Courting Grounds
When driven to nest, adult Leedsichthys migrate towards their established courting grounds, found within the waters between Big Tree Overlook and Cedrus Forest.
This interest is particularly palpable immediately after heavy rain.
Males usually arrive first, and begin searching the courting grounds for the best location to place their nest. Once selected, a male remains close to his nest and begins displaying to attract the attention of passing females.
A nest placed close to a source of krill is considered highly desirable.
Courting males become considerably more vibrant, flushing their colours brighter in an attempt to make themselves more noticeable amongst competing males.
Females exhibit little interest in offspring and do not possess the strong parental instincts seen in males. Instead, reproductive instincts periodically draw adult females towards the courting grounds, where they seek males and eventually lay their eggs.
Males entice females towards them and their nest through elaborate swimming displays. They circle around their nest, weave back and forth below it, and slap their tails above the surface.
Females move slowly throughout the courting grounds, inspecting both the males and their nests before making their choice. They may linger around particularly interesting displays, before continuing on to inspect other available mates.
A female interested in a male approaches his nest, calling affectionately. If they both accept one another, the female swims onto her side (? emote) and circles around his nest.
Females are not monogamous, and may choose several different males during the same nesting period. A female chooses how many eggs she may lay with a particular male, up to her egg limit for the season.
Some females may lay all of her eggs with one male, while others may opt to leave eggs with multiple males.
Males, likewise, readily accept courtship advances from multiple females that show interest in them.
✦ Nesting
Males make the nesting posts, with as many eggs as the female allows him to take. He must make one nesting post per female he nests with.
Once eggs have been deposited, males become increasingly attentive towards their nests.
Females generally leave the area after depositing their eggs, and offer no input on rearing young.
Males remain with the nest until their final egg has hatched. Once this happens, nests are abandoned, and the father's attention shifts from the nesting site to the live young now following him.
Some new fathers remain in the courtship grounds for a little while after their young hatch, while others prefer to leave immediately for new waters.
✦ Parenthood
Leedsichthys exhibit paternal care. Fathers assume full responsibility for their offspring, while females take no active role in rearing young.
Females show little interest in their offspring after laying their eggs. A female that happens to encounter her own pups treats them much as she would any other young Leedsichthys.
Some females display a mild curiosity towards a father travelling with pups, and follow the nursery group from a distance for a short period. This does not develop into maternal care,  and mothers do not assist in protecting or raising offspring.
Once pups hatch, a father's primary responsibility is to keep his school of young together. Fathers move slowly enough for pups to follow, and monitors the dense group gathering around and behind him.
Once all offspring have hatched and are ready to leave the nesting grounds, the male destroys his nest before they swim away together.
Fathers regularly alter their course and circle back when their school of young become too scattered, encouraging stragglers to return to the safety of the greater group.
Much of Leedsichthys fatherhood resembles crowd control as opposed to constant affection. Fathers spend considerable time simply keeping their numerous excitable pups together, migrating with him in the same direction.
Despite this, fathers may show some affection towards their pups. They tolerate their young crowding closely against their bodies, and may gently brush against them, remaining patient as pups weave around them during play.
Fathers defend their offspring from predators, and position their bodies between a threat and their young whenever possible.
When threatened, fathers prioritise gathering pups and leading them away from danger, rather than pursuing a predator.
Paternal bonds weaken as offspring grow more independent. Fathers become less concerned by adolescents straying from the school grouping, and make less effort to gather them.
✦ Offspring Maturity
As Leedsichthys pups approach adolescence, the once tightly packed nursery group gradually becomes a loose collection of individuals.
Siblings begin travelling further from both their father and one another - sometimes disappearing for periods of time before returning to the family.
Fathers progressively make less effort to retrieve wandering offspring as they mature, allowing their natural independence to develop.
By Sub-Adult, paternal bonds and sibling schooling instincts fade entirely.
Leedsichthys disperse individually from their father and siblings, and begin their own solitary lives.
✦ Adoption
Leedsichthys pups have a powerful instinct to school with other young of a similar size and age, regardless of whether they are related.
An orphan encountering an established nursery group may begin following its movements, and gradually insert itself amongst the other pups.
Fathers make no distinction between biological offspring and an orphan that successfully joins their school. There is no adoption display or period of introduction - once an orphan is swimming amongst his pups, the father simply begins treating it as another member of the school.
Adopted pups receive the same tolerance and protection as a father's biological offspring.
Bild
Elderly Leedsicthys grow sluggish, moving extremely slowly during their migration and often opting not to swim into shallower waters.
These Leedsicthys are often found living the rest of their lives in the deep ocean, floating along and allowing the currents to carry them forward.
The typical migration path is often abandoned, preferring not to expose themselves to the great dangers of shallow water. As a result, these typically solitary creatures often grow reclusive, avoiding other Leedsicthys.
Once vibrant scales may even begin to fade into a more uniform coloration.
✦ Death
Leedsichthys, in their last throes of life, suddenly flush to show Albino coloration.
They begin to sink to the bottom of the ocean, never to rise again.
They die against the ocean floor, left for scavengers and for opportunistic carnivores to feed from.
Bild
Leedsichthys females may split their eggs across multiple males, as long as they do not exceed the nesting limit.
Leedsichthys males are those that make the nesting posts. If nesting with multiple females, the male must make separate nesting posts for each female he is nesting with.
Leedsichthys do not group with other Leedsichthys unless a father with his offspring, or unless all members of the group are Adolescent or below.
Leedsichthys are tolerant of all other Leedsichthys.
Bild
N/A
RULE EXEMPTIONS
Leedsichthys do not claim bodies that have fallen in an engagement, bodies that they come across, or bodies that fall in their own defense, as they are unable to feed from them. (5.3)
Leedsichthys always respect the forfeits of other carnivores, as they hold no interest in hunting or actively killing other species. (4.8.2.3)
Leedsichthys offspring (Hatchling, Juvenile, and Adolescent) do not gain the tier of their parent when within two bodylengths of them. (1.10.1)
Adolescent Leedsichthys are still considered Large tier. Hatchling and juvenile Leedsichthys have no tier and can be hunted by any carnivorous species.
Leedsichthys do not require a mutation roll to shed into the Albino skin when actively dying. Once shed into the Albino skin, Leedsichthys must die within 10 minutes. (1.12)
Preferred POIs
Bild
Gondwa
Leedsichthys is not found in Gondwa.
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Leedsicthys are Apex Cathemeral Aquatic Filter Feeder Carnivore.
Leedsicthys can group up to 1 sub/adults, unlimited offspring, and unlimited adoptees.
Leedsicthys are passive in nature.
If hunted, Leedsicthys may only defend themselves, except in the case of a male protecting his offspring.
Leedsicthys are defensive in nature, and opt to not continue engagements after forfeit.
Leedsicthys do not group with other species, but are incredibly curious of them. They often observe others from a distance, though never linger if their presence is found to be a disturbance.
Nesting females are able to divide their eggs between male suitors, ensuring a part of her clutch thrives even if initial choices were poor. Aside from providing the eggs, female Leedsicthys play no part in child-rearing.
Leedsicthys may opt to communally migrate with other Leedsicthys, but will not group in game with them during this.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time: (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-60-75-85 = 240 total
Combat Weight: 5500
Adjusted Stats:
 * Boosted health. 
Quick Links
Top
Growing up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Predator Reaction
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?