Austroraptor
    "Austro"
Austroraptor is a semi-aquatic dromaeosaurid roaming the seaways and waterways of Riparia and Gondwa. Austroraptor rely heavily on their mated pair as a source of protection and connection, but may temporarily socialize with other adults in the same POI. Austroraptor are primarily fishers, but enjoy taking advantage of their ability to firmly hold small prey, often toying with them before killing them.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: CrownlessCrow & Red & Kittyful
Photo: CrownlessCrow
Profile inspired by herons, albatross, Emperor penguins, Austroraptor paleobiology, and creative liberty.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 12.03.2026 20:30
Overview
Bild
Medium Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Carnivore
Austroraptor form lifelong bonds.
Austroraptor are nomadic.
Austroraptor have a tolerant nature.
Austroraptor  are scavengers.
Austroraptor tolerate mutated individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Austroraptor include:
Albino, Melanistic, Peafowl (Piebald)
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 2 Sub/Adults; consisting of a mated pair.
Up to 5 Offspring; however, Austroraptor struggle with stress when having more than 4 offspring in a nest.
Austroraptor does not adopt.

This group is known as a pair.

Additionally, 4 Austroraptor may temporarily group in order to mob solitary Large tier.

Austroraptor may gather in unlimited numbers within a POI. This consists of separate pairs and lone individuals. This social group is called a siege.
Austroraptor may not form dispersal groups.
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 2 Austroraptor may work together to hunt up to Medium tier.
With 4 Austroraptor in a temporary mob, Austroraptor may hunt solitary Large tier.
Austroraptor may hunt any attended or unattended Adolescent or below individuals, unless they are sauropods (Apatosaurus, Argentinosaurus, or Amargasaurus)-- or attended by an Apex carnivore parent. Austroraptor may still hunt attended Leedsichthys offspring.
Pairs may always work together to defend one another from being hunted.
If in a mated pair and attacked by a tier they cannot hunt, Austroraptor may defend themselves and their mate until they find an opportunity to flee.
Austroraptor do not accept territory challenges from other species when not at their courtship or nesting grounds. They will forfeit and move on to the next POI.
In the nesting or courtship grounds, up to 4 individuals may defend the entire siege’s right to remain in the area.
Austroraptor avoid all Apex tier carnivores and will flee if challenged or attacked by them. This excludes Leedsichthys.
Austroraptor may also risk scavenging at any time.
Adolescent Austroraptor do not assist with their parents’ hunts.
Solo Adolescent Austroraptor do not hunt other species.

Preferred Prey
Austroraptor prefer to feed from easy kills, such as critters, fish, and crabs. They crack open shells with their claws and by smashing them against rocks.
Austroraptor do not hunt other Austroraptor, but may feed from the corpses. They will not feed from the corpse of their mate.
Austroraptor often prefer prey that they can pick up in their teeth and carry away, especially when it comes to feeding offspring or a partner.
If wanting or needing to hunt bigger prey, they will first prioritize scavenging if available.
Then, they will hunt any attended or unattended offspring of Adolescent or below (other than sauropods - Apatosaurus, Argentinosaurus, or Amargasaurus - or attended by an Apex carnivore parent. Austroraptor may still hunt attended Leedsichthys offspring). 
Austroraptor do not need to mob to hunt adolescent Apex tier offspring (even though they are considered Large).
They may also prioritize Deinonychus and  small Desmatosuchus, Anodontosaurus, and Peloroplites that can be carried. These species are easy prey items and a source of entertainment that Austroraptor takes to drown, or smash against rocks.
If these are unavailable or out of reach, Austroraptor will then target adult Medium tiers and below.
Mobs will only target solo Larges and do not hunt other prey tiers.
Austroraptor may also risk scavenging at any time.
Austroraptor are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.
 
Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ ☀️ Rainy/Dry Season: 1-5 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
You must use the bot command /rolleggs Austroraptor in ⁠⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to determine the eggs your female lays before making your nesting post. You must link this roll inside of the nesting post.
The gender ratio of eggs is pre-determined by the bot. When claiming an egg, players must react with a male or female icon to showcase their desire to hatch as that gender.
Austroraptor nest in the open on beaches. Their nests lack any form of decoration or coverage. They are placed in close proximity to other Austroraptor nests at dedicated nesting grounds.
Austroraptor may form same-sex female pairs; these female pairs may both choose to form a temporary bond with a male to nest. Once courted at the courtship grounds, they will leave him behind, and migrate to the nesting ground to nest. See Courtship Behavior.
Austroraptor may also form same-sex male pairs; these males strategically place nests in communal nesting grounds to try to adopt offspring. See Courtship Behavior.

Physical Dimorphism
Austroraptor do not have physical dimorphism.
This profile does not have high T or low T individuals.
♀️ Females are known as hens. When approached by others at the courtship ground, hens will softly coo as a means of introduction ( :friendly_call: ).
♂️ Males, known as drakes, greet others at the courtship ground by standing on one leg, bowing, stretching out their wings, and lifting their tail in the air (:question_emote: ).
Austroraptor only take part in mandatory gendered greetings at the courtship grounds as means of introducing themselves to a new individual. When at the courtship grounds, it is mandatory to use the greeting aligned with the sex chosen at character creation.
 
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Hatchling Austroraptor, called chicks, are born feeble, fluffy, and completely reliant on their parents. With non-waterproof feathers, weak legs, and closed eyes, they rely on the warmth and comfort of their nest, parents, and siblings to survive.
Throughout the hatchling stage, chicks remain bundled together in the nests, only peeping when cold, hungry, or thirsty. Parents take turns bringing food to the chicks and sitting on the nest, especially at night or when raining.
Once Juvenile, Austroraptor chicks begin to open their eyes, and start to develop the leg strength to bobble around. Carefully watched over by their doting parents, Austroraptor chicks take their first wobbly steps alongside their siblings.
It does not take long for chicks to rapidly increase in confidence when it comes to walking and running, and before long chicks are waddling around their nests and up to their parents eagerly for food and attention. Chicks rarely, if ever, go further than a bodylength from the nest before quickly being ferried back by an adult.
They are still unable to swim at this age; dense with fluffy feathers that serve to keep them warm on windy nesting grounds, over granting them the ability to swim.
Chicks also begin to express interest in their siblings at Juvenile; initiating short games of play, preening, and even posturing contests. They typically follow around the parent they are most bonded with, but both parents will quickly carry them back to the nest if they are followed too far. Chicks soon learn how far they can - and cannot - follow.
If predators come, a chick’s first line of defense is being picked up and taken to the cover of water by its parents. If not picked up in time, chicks rush to the nearest coverage, rather than water.
When it is cold or raining, chicks wail for the attention of their parents, huddling closely together with their siblings in the nest. Parents rush to take care of wailing chicks, and curl up around them, snuggling them in close to their feathers. Chicks finally settle at that point, and fall asleep easily.
At Adolescent, chicks finally begin to shed out of their light colored baby feathers and into their adult swimming feathers.
Once all chicks in a clutch are Adolescent, the entire clutch is taken for their first swim, and is quickly taught their parents' unique hunting strategies and calls.
Once chicks are confident in swimming and hunting, young adolescents fall into line, acting as nearly fully independent adults within the group.
Parental protection ends once chicks reach Sub-Adult, but family members may exchange the occasional show of tenderness.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Hatchling orphaned Austroraptor struggle severely with survival; with often no siblings to assist keeping them warm, and no parents to tend to them. This continues into Juvenile, where chicks are able to move around and look around on their own, but are unable to swim and therefore cannot fish for themselves.
These chicks rely on stomping on crabs and other small aquatic critters, as well as feeding on shells in order to supplement their diet.
Orphaned Austroraptor struggle to survive and thrive in any capacity; and miraculous survival to adulthood often results in a highly anxious and more aggressive individual.
Some orphans are fortunate enough to discover an unattended Austroraptor nest. In these circumstances, chicks can force their way into the nest, rubbing against their new "siblings" to absorb their scents, and hopefully achieve adoption.
Whether or not the potential parents accept them depends on the adults' temperaments and suspicion levels. Nests that suddenly gain numbers can prompt stress and confusion in parents.
If, with an orphan, a nest does not exceed 4 offspring, orphans may be accepted if the parents are not overly suspicious, and treated as a late hatcher of the Austroraptor's own clutch.
However, if the orphan pushes the nest to 5 or more offspring, this newcomer will quickly find themselves regarded with suspicion, aggressed, exiled - or worse, slaughtered outright.
In adulthood, orphans struggle with socialization and may require extended periods of observation at the courtship grounds to learn how to socialize and court.
Once paired with another individual, they are possessive of their partner.
Bild
Austroraptor are feathered dromaeosaurids who migrate the entirety of Riparia and Gondwa, primarily along waterways and beaches.
Austroraptor are active both at night and during the day, but are often heard issuing long whistle calls at night, and seen huddling together around offspring and the most fragile of their groupings.
Due to an Austroraptor’s incidentally high-salt diet, Austroraptor must expel salt out of their bodies through spitting. In addition, they may do this as a show of distaste towards predators and other Austroraptor, and is often used as a method of correction for incorrect behavior.
Austroraptor huddle together to preserve warmth often, especially when raining, snowing, or at night.
Austroraptor may “claim” herds or carnivore packs to follow, keeping a careful distance, in order to steal their offspring.
Every individual Austroraptor has a unique voice that is used for recognition amongst family members and courted pairs; even at a great distance, bonded pairs are always able to recognize each other’s voices.
Each Austroraptor generally exhibits more dominant or more submissive behaviors; however, this may shift over their lifetime and from situation to situation, depending on their individual personalities.
Austroraptor enjoy deep diving under the water to fish and to root for shells, as well as to play with their family members.
Austroraptor stand motionless in water to observe for fish and other small critters and on the beaches, using their wings as shade to attract them.
Fallen trees above the water are prime hunting spots. Austroraptor stand atop these logs, waiting for fish to swim by and dive directly into the water to snap up their prey.
Sometimes, Austroraptor will linger around a dead tree, occasionally calling in hopes to attract attention to it, waiting for a larger creature to force the log over.
Same-sex female pairs are common in Austroraptor, given the higher ratio of females that hatch in comparison to males.
Austroraptor are highly intelligent and learn hunting strategies quickly, working together with their pair to develop unique hunting patterns. Austroraptor examine new things and new species very closely, and even may take the time stalking a new species or herd in order to locate weaker prey.
Austroraptor are aloof about most others, but sometimes play with each other by chasing and nipping at one another’s tail feathers.
At times, Austroraptor may drown prey, and comparatively, offspring. See Aggressive Behavior - Infanticide.
Austroraptor stomp on eggs in nests that they find while migrating.
Lifelong bonded Austroraptor spend a great deal of quality time together, sitting, cleaning and fishing together, nearly always at each other’s sides.
Austroraptor are most comfortable when with others of their kind. Though they will not group with more than one adult Austroraptor, several pairs and individuals may remain within a POI together as a siege.
✦ Downtime behaviour
Austroraptor sleep in short periods sporadically through the day and night. Oftentimes, they tuck themselves away in shrubs to conceal themselves or float on the top of the water out of reach of terrestrial carnivores.
Pairs can be seen diving beneath the water, slowly circling each other and breaching the surface with soft coos.
Sitting closely together, Austroraptor pairs commonly and habitually take part in preening each other.
Bild
✦ Personality Types
Austroraptor exhibit different personalities naturally throughout their childhood and into their adulthood. Some individuals may show more dominant behaviors, and others more submissive behaviors; with a few individuals having behaviors that vary dependent on the situation.
All Austroraptor have unique personalities, but these are particularly pertinent examples that develop and remain throughout the entirety of their lives, from hatchling to elder.
Dominant Personality Type:
Austroraptor with a more dominant personality are frequently seen broadcasting, posturing, and flaring their feathers dramatically. They are much more physically expressive than other Austroraptor, and use eye contact and body language to take control of situations.
In order to show their dominance towards other Austroraptor, Austroraptor with a dominant personality straighten themselves out, slowly stepping forward as they make intense eye contact with the other individual.
Austroraptor with this personality type additionally rush to be the first to feed from corpses, even pushing aside their own offspring.
Dominant Austroraptor may rush to claim prime perching, fishing, sleeping, and nesting locations, screeching joyfully to declare their ownership of these spots.
Dominant Austroraptor are significantly more eager to prove themselves to other Austroraptor and their mate via hunting larger prey, and by defending their mate from threats.
Dominant Austroraptor flare their wings, head feathers, and tails often to make themselves more physically imposing, whether it is towards another Austroraptor or a threat. At times, Austroraptor may even point its head directly upwards as method to intimidate.
Dominant Austroraptor may also bite and peck at individuals who intrude too closely into their personal space. These bites and pecks are nothing more than a one-time correction, with other Austroraptor immediately giving them their personal space.
Submissive Personality Type:
Austroraptor with a more submissive personality are much quieter than their dominant counterparts, preferring to remain to the outskirts of social interactions and close to their mates.
In order to indicate submission, Austroraptor crouch in front of, turn away from, or look away from dominant individuals, openly avoiding eye contact.
Submissive Austroraptor are more relaxed and peaceful, preferring to primarily fish and at times scavenge rather than take part in riskier hunts.
Austroraptor with this personality type prefer to keep their feathers smooth and inoffensive, remaining small in comparison to other Austroraptor. They rarely puff up at all.
Submissive Austroraptor will also carefully preen other individuals to build bonds and trust, unwilling to take part in riskier behaviors in order to show their abilities.
✦ Mated Pairs
Austroraptor rely heavily on their mate, as this is the individual they remain closest to through their lives. They are constantly close to one another, and rarely if ever leave one another’s sides.
Mated pairs are often seen fishing and swimming together, diving and manoeuvring with each other in unison. 
Austroraptor does not find value in gifts that are not food and will not use alternative items as prizes to impress their partner.
Preening and soft chatter is frequent, with each pair having their unique way of communication.
Males in a mated pair may even flare their feathers as they did in the courtship grounds, which is always appreciated by his mate. With prompting from the female, males may even become very excited and replicate their performances from the courtship grounds; which is always appreciated by his mate!
Mated pairs are always extremely protective over one another, and do not tolerate offenses to their mate. This can result in grudges held against other species, especially those that injure their partner.
Mated pairs always ensure that the other is well fed, and take turns fishing for one another or presenting critters.
Mates constantly reaffirm their bonds through frequent chatter that is unique between the pair.
Dominant x Dominant Personality Pairs:
Mated pairs of Austroraptor who are both more dominant in personality are much louder together, frequently broadcasting to draw one another’s attention and to show off.
These pairs will claim the best fishing spots in an area, and are very choosy about where they nest. They will defend these spots fiercely from outside interference.
Dominant x dominant personality pairs will also snap at one another as a form of play. If any nips land accidentally, the offender rushes to make it up to the other, preening them apologetically, bringing them lots of food, and nuzzling them often.
These pairs are often seen playing via competing with one another; whether it is running short distances, finding the biggest fish, or otherwise.
Despite both being extremely confident and noisy, neither are found without the other, and will adamantly go searching if unable to find one another.
Dominant x Submissive Personality Pairs:
Pairings of both a dominant and submissive personality balance each other the best of all of the pairings, eventually helping the other to grow in confidence or to learn where the line is drawn.
The more dominant of the pair typically learns better restraint, guided by the influence of their more careful and quieter mate; while the more submissive of the pair learns more steady confidence, willing to assert themselves where needed.
Within this pairing resides a healthy balance, where both are able to fiercely defend their personal space and nesting areas, but are simultaneously capable of being loving, doting parents to their offspring.
These pairs are inseparable, and are rarely seen apart.
Submissive x Submissive Personality Pairs:
Pairings consisting of more submissive personalities are the most quiet of all Austroraptor pairs, preferring to remain completely isolated and only with one another.
These pairs often find comfortable resting places to snuggle up to one another and preen, their most consistent form of bonding.
Submissive pairings form long lasting bonds and may exhibit anxiety when separated from one another, particularly if they have not heard one another’s flutes for an extended period of time.
These pairs are also typically the best parents, constantly nuzzling, preening, and fussing over their offspring.
✦ Sieges
Austroraptor commonly gather together, remaining in the same area within a POI. These larger groups are called sieges.
While Austroraptor only take comfort in their pair, sieges offer protection in numbers.
When spotting a predator in the area, members in a siege begin to call out, alerting the other Austroraptor in the area of it’s presence.
This alarm system can either indicate a larger meal, or danger.
Sieges are advantageous for Austroraptor should larger prey be available. Four Austroraptor will group temporarily to work together in taking down prey.
Once the kill is complete, the individuals who participated in the hunt will eat first. Other Austroraptor in the siege may attempt to eat from this body at the risk of being aggressed or nipped at by the other Austroraptor.
If aggressed, the scavenging Austroraptor will move away and do not persist in feeding from the body.
Pairs and individuals, if outside the courting grounds, do not intrude on each others personal space unless they have recognized each other as family.
Sieges do not hold a strict hierarchy, though dominant individuals are often seen staring harshly at others. Most commonly occurring when themselves or their mate is approached by other Austroraptor.
Submissive individuals will often turn their heads away from these harsh stares and make sure to give the other a wide berth when moving about them.
✦ Solitary encountering solitary
When two solitary individuals encounter each other outside the courtship grounds, they may assess each other curiously and remain near each other, though do not enter each other’s personal space or defend each other.
✦ Pairs interacting with other Pairs
Austroraptor pairs tolerate other pairs in the area, though depending on the personalities of the individuals, interaction may vary from quiet observation to louder chater.
If two or more pairs are nesting some pairs will take part in Conspecific Brood Parasitism - See more in Courtship & Nesting.
Pairs who recognize others as family may be seen swimming and fishing together, tolerating each other within their space.
Some pairs may not appreciate others in their space, staring down those who approach or opting to move away from another encroaching pair.
✦ Solitary Behavior
When solitary, Austroraptor do not exhibit many differences from individuals in a pair.
Lone Austroraptor will often quietly observe and follow potential prey items or species new to them for short periods of time.If aggressed by adult individuals they cannot hunt, they will flee.
These lone individuals may move to the courting grounds in hopes of finding a mate or observe the behavior of more experienced individuals in an attempt to learn how to socialise.
Some Austroraptor, typically younger individuals, opt not to visit the courting grounds until later in their lives.
✦ Reunions
As Austroraptor are capable of recognizing others via their voices, Austroraptor happily greet individuals they recognize, such as siblings, parents, or offspring.
Reunited individuals may spend some time preening one another, or introducing each other to their mates. They may initiate play behaviors such as games of chase, nipping, or even dancing.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Albino and melanistic individuals are not treated any differently than other Austroraptor.
Bild
✦ Infanticide
Austroraptor will attempt to drown orphaned Austroraptor if they find them outside of the nesting grounds.
This is not a considered a hunt.
If the orphaned Austroraptor cannot be picked up, adult Austroraptor will not kill it and instead move on.
Austroraptor who have successfully committed infanticide only stay with the body if they eat from it.
Some parents may exhibit high levels of stress when having 4 or more offspring in the nest, and may kill them.
When nesting, Austroraptor may partake in Conspecific Brood Parasitism. See Conspecific Brood Parasitism under Courtship & Parenthood for further information.
If a pair witnesses another pair attempting to put their offspring in their nest, they will initiate a Standoff, as seen below. 
If the attempted host parents win the standoff, the chick is killed by the attempted hosts, and fed to their chicks.
If the biological parents of the chick win the standoff, they are permitted to carry the chick away, but cannot attempt to put the baby back in the same nest.
✦ Standoffs
Austroraptor rarely, if ever, escalate to physical violence with other Austroraptor.
However, more dominant individuals may wish to reserve the right to a nesting area, fishing spot, or their personal space, and will do this via posturing– standing upright and making intense eye contact.
While submissive individuals will crouch, look away, and immediately move away, other dominant individuals may return the gesture, returning the eye contact instead.
At this point, both individuals will begin to flare their feathers and call loudly (broadcasting), in effort to drive the other Austroraptor away.
If this effort still does not work, they may begin to bite in each other’s direction.
At this point, if the individual does not have a mate, they must flee. If the individual does have a mate, they will rush forward and also begin posturing, in order to pose a bigger deterrence.
Mates may also opt to rush their mate away from the standoff, particularly those with submissive personalities. This is always respected by their mate, even if begrudgingly.
Fights will only break out after both sides have had their mate join the standoff, and neither side has backed off after 30 seconds. If this occurs, both sides must aggressively call twice.
Both pairs then may fight each other until one individual in the engagement reaches half health. At this point, a forfeit is declared by repeated fear calls and rushing away. The winners will not chase after this forfeit is issued.
After a standoff has completed, the same pairs may not issue another standoff against each other for 30 minutes.
 
Bild
Austroraptor are tolerant towards other species, though opt to keep a safe distance from other carnivores unless interested in a hunt.
If approached by a group of carnivores, Austroraptor continue to maintain distance. 
If the carnivores are unable to be hunted by the Austroraptor present, then Austroraptor will flee if aggressed.
Austroraptor do not tolerate scavengers.
Austroraptor may be observed following herds and carnivore packs long distances, “claiming” them in order to hunt their offspring if they fall behind. They keep a solid distance between them and the herbivores, and hide if aggressed if not actively hunting offspring.
Austroraptor pairs work together to get the attention of larger species in order to push logs over.
Austroraptor will not accept territory challenges from other species when not at their courtship or nesting grounds.
Austroraptor may defend their right to stay in their courtship or nesting grounds, with 4 individuals forming a temporary group to do so.
✦ Deinonychus
Deinonychus, easily grabbed by Austroraptor, are entertaining prey.
Austroraptor attempt to grab and run to the water with a Deinonychus in their mouth, quickly submerging the smaller raptor and shaking it.
Should the smaller raptor get free and begin to swim to shore, Austroraptor will nip and taunt before grabbing hold of it once more to prevent its escape, inevitably killing it.
Bild
Austroraptor are cautious creatures and will only begin a hunt if they feel they can overwhelm their prey.
Before a hunt, Austroraptor carefully assess their chosen prey, quietly chattering to each other or remaining silent.
Once they begin a hunt, Austroraptor surround their prey and call loudly in an attempt to disorient and overwhelm. They move in quickly with harsh bites and kicks to wear down their target.
Austroraptor mouths are particularly toxic; and when they land a bite, this bite often comes with unpleasant side effects for their victim.
Primarily, Austroraptor will aim to drown their prey if they are able to pick it up. Pairs will take turns picking up the prey in their mouths and taking them back into the water. The opposite is true for Leedsichthys pups, which they will carry to the shore instead.
If unable to do so, they will pick up their prey and smash it into the ground and against rocks; this is especially done with Anodontosaurus, Desmatosuchus, and Peloroplites that are young enough to be carried.
✦ Mobbing
4 Austroraptor temporarily group in order to hunt solitary Large tier. Four individuals will temporarily form an alliance to hunt together and to take advantage of hunting larger prey.
They must group in order to hunt. After Austroraptor has successfully gotten a kill, or has forfeit the hunt, the group will separate.
 
Bild
✦ Forming an Initial Bond
Austroraptor seeking their lifelong bond will migrate to Volcano Islands or Red Island Pond in order to court.
At the courtship grounds, males greet new individuals via bowing their heads, lifting their tails, and extending their wings, switching from foot to foot. This acts as indication that they are male, an interest in courting the other individual, and as a beginning to the performance, all in one motion.
If the male greets another male, he will return the posture, and both will shake off before moving off to find females.
To accept the male’s advances, a female will issue soft trilling calls towards him. This will begin the rest of the courtship process.
To reject a male, a female will turn her back and move away. This is a respected motion by both parties, and neither will try to court the other again.
Acceptance starts the male’s performance - in which he rushes into the water and begins to broadcast, swimming as fast as possible, diving in and out of the water, and stretching out his wings.
Once a female is satisfied with the performance, she will move into the water and approach the male, trilling excitedly.
A female who is bored of a male’s performance, or not interested, will move away to watch a different performance.
The male, when approached, will trill excitedly in return. The pair will then nuzzle one another, and dive into the water together, beginning their first shared swim, and their first fishing trip together as a new pair.
Same Sex Female Pairs:
Females interested in other females will pace the beaches, and will approach other females to introduce themselves. They will do so with soft calls and gentle movements, and females who are interested in courting will mimic with soft coos of their own.
The initiating female will softly trill and coax the other towards the water, looking back to ensure the other is following. 
If the female is still interested, she will follow. If not, she will sit down as a show of gentle refusal.
The females will swim into the water together, calling to one another happily. The pair will only break apart in effort to find fish for one another.
Once this is done, they are considered lifelong bonded.
If a female pair decides they would like to nest, they may return to the courtship grounds to find a suitable male. This follows typical opposite sex courtship, and only one female in the pair will court a male.
Once courtship is complete, the other female will quickly rush to block the male from following her mate, making intense eye contact. Males quickly pick up on this signal and back off, and may return to the courtship grounds to court a different female.
Same Sex Male Pairs:
Males interested in other males will greet each other as normal. If both males take interest, a courting display is done by both males as they simultaneously jump into the water with excitement. This courtship display is filled with calls, dashing and diving about in the water, and often circling each other.
Once satisfied with their performance, they will breaking apart, finding fish for one another.
After exchanging fish with excited trills, they are considered lifelong bonded.
Male pairs do not form temporary bonds with a female, but may still travel to the nesting grounds and make a nest in the chance that a chick sneaks in or is dropped into their nest when they are away.
 
Lifelong Pairbonds:
Once a bond has been established, a pair does not have to return to the courting grounds in order to nest.
Instead, one of the individuals in the pair will indicate interest in courtship by intensely preening the other. If the other is interested as well, this behavior will be returned.
Once returned, the pair will set off on a fishing trip. Once both individuals in the pair have caught a fish, they will present it to each other. They will both eat the fish that the other has caught, and trill to one another happily.
✦ Nesting
Once their fishing trip is complete, the nesting pair will find a suitable nesting location, such as on a beach near a river or a beach near to the ocean in a communal nesting ground.
This is to allow easy access to food and to routes of travel or escape in case of trouble. It also ensures that Austroraptor can see all predators as they approach.
Nests are constructed of wet mud, sand, and twigs, and are otherwise undecorated.
✦ Parenthood
Once all the offspring are invited to the nest, both parents will abandon their nest to go fishing.
This is to provide their offspring with their first sufficient meal upon hatching. Once both have found a fish or a suitable critter, parents will then return to the nest to invite offspring in the nest to group.
Both parents take part in raising the young and do not rely on the rest of the siege to rear their offspring.
First time parents may take longer to soothe their chicks, overwhelmed by continuous wailing, if none of their attempts soothe them. They may sometimes become frustrated and exhibit this by leaving the nest to go fishing with their mate.
More experienced parents are quick to try every method they can, often rotating between preening, offering different types of food, and keeping the chicks warm.
Austroraptor are protective parents, often eyeing others that come near the nest. Only when they are within a body length with they immediately hiss at the offending Austroraptor who will immediately move away.
Should a predator approach the nest, Austroraptor will pick up their chicks and carry them in their mouths to rush them to safety, whether it is swimming into water or rushing to hide them in foliage.
Austroraptor parents will both simultaneously curl around chicks in a nest in order to ensure they stay warm during rain, nighttime, snow, or other cold weather.
If offspring below juvenile enter the water, now stressed parents immediately run to snatch the child out, dropping it back into the nest. They will aggressively preen the chick to ensure the water does not seep into their down and freeze the chick.
Once chicks are adolescent, parents teach them the essential fishing, swimming, and hunting behaviors that will help them grow to be capable adults. This is often done through “games” and even pushing chicks into the water to get them past their initial nerves.
 
Parental Stress:
Clutches that exceed 4 eggs cause stress in pairs. This results in selective reduction by parents, either by chasing individuals from the nest or slaughtering them outright.
Pairs may also attempt conspecific brood parasitism if they have more chicks in their nest than they feel able to comfortably support.
Conspecific Brood Parasitism:
When an Austroraptor nest exceeds 4 offspring, pairs will become extremely stressed. In an attempt to reduce the stress and increase the survival of their offspring, Austroraptor take part in conspecific brood parasitism.
When pairs nest at the same time as another pair, a pair with 5 chicks will likely seek an opportunity to place their extra offspring in another pair's nest.
Gently clamping the newborn chick, one of the parents will take the opportunity when the other pair have left to fish, sneaking the offspring into the nest and fleeing.
A chick who has been grabbed and deposited in another nest will not struggle or flee the nest they were placed in, comfortable with being picked up and moved into another warm nest.
If there are already 4 offspring in the nest when the biological pair bring their offspring over, they will swap it with one of the host offspring.
After selecting one of these offspring, Austroraptor will take the chick to nearby water, submerging it in an attempt to drown it or shaking it to death.
Chicks who are grabbed from their nest do not attempt to escape the grasp of an adult, trusting the adults around them.
Other members of the siege do not interfere with this behavior.
Should the owners of the potential host nest catch the biological parent attempting this, they will begin a Standoff.
In order to do this, the parent carrying the offspring must drop the offspring, which does not move away and remains where it was placed.
Should the biological parents lose the standoff, the chick will be killed by the potential hosts and fed to the potential host’s nest.
Should the biological parents win, the chick will not be killed by the potential host and will be attempted to be placed into another nest.
If no other host is available, the parents may resort to killing the chick.
Other members of the siege do not interfere with this behavior.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Offspring often remain in the same area once they fully mature, but no longer receive the protection of their parents.
Parents will chase offspring away from their personal space once mature, preferring to turn back to their pair.
✦ Adoption
Orphaned chicks who are able to wiggle their way into nests without detection are “adopted,” but Austroraptor does not otherwise adopt.
Bild
Elderly Austroraptor begin to dull in color, their bright plumage fading to lighter shades. Unable to hunt larger prey, they are more frequently found in the water fishing, even preferencing more coastal and isolated islands.
If without a pair, elderly Austroraptor are very unlikely to visit the courting grounds and attempt to court, unable to exert the energy to consistently maintain a siege.
✦ Death
If an individual in a mated pair dies while hunting, the surviving individual cries out, rushing to the body and crouching over the top of it to try to nuzzle and rouse it. 
If the engagement is against another carnivore or carnivores, Austroraptor is quickly forced away from the body with aggressive calls and even bites. This may even result in the death of both individuals, if the Austroraptor is not fast enough in its efforts to flee.
If the engagement is against a herbivore, Austroraptor is typically permitted to remain with the body. Austroraptor often lay in this spot, completely frozen, even for a long period after the body is gone, practically blind to other threats.
Mourning is an intense time for Austroraptor, and often results in a lot of stressed plucking of feathers, screeching, and crying out for a mate that will not return.
This often means that an Austroraptor whom has lost their mate will never court again. Some individuals might, but are much more difficult to impress than other Austroraptor.
Austroraptor who are nearing death will separate themselves from the rest of the siege before they pass. Lifelong pairs will often separate from the group together.
Tucking themselves into underbrush, Austroraptor will quietly pass away from the rest of the siege.
Other members of the siege do not deeply mourn or inspect elderly Austroraptor. They may notice the elderly selecting their place of rest, but will choose to move on rather than linger near the individual.
Bild
If Austroraptor have freshly paired and grouped at the courtship grounds, they may defend one another.
Austroraptor may form same sex pairs, though male pairs do not form temporary bonds with a female.
Offspring limits may be overridden with nest multipliers; however, result in a lot of stress for both parents, and often result in brood parasitism being attempted.
Austroraptor may always attempt to defend their mate from Apex tier, but must flee when granted the opportunity.
 
Bild
Austroraptor may hunt any unattended or attended offspring, excluding sauropods (Amargasaurus, Apatosaurus, Argentinosaurus) and attended offspring of Apex carnivores (Deinosuchus, Giganotosaurus, Spinosaurus, Tylosaurus, Tyrannosaurus, Tyrannotitan).
After a standoff, neither pair may issue another standoff to one another for 30 minutes.
Austroraptor may mob a solitary Large with 4 members in the hunting party. These individuals must group temporarily, and must ungroup after prey has been killed or a forfeit.
Austroraptor do not accept territory challenges from other species when not at their courtship or nesting grounds. They will forfeit and move on to the next POI.
In the nesting or courtship grounds, up to 4 individuals may defend the entire siege's right to remain in the area.
Austroraptor may hunt other players if 75% or below hunger in the courtship grounds and nesting grounds.

RULE EXEMPTIONS
Austroraptor mated pairs may defend their mates from predators they cannot hunt, but must flee when granted the opportunity (3.2.3).
Austroraptor may commit infanticide without it being considered a hunt or gaining a species timer. They are only required to stay with the body if eating from it. (3.9, 4.1, 4.8.1, 5.3).
Austroraptor are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
 
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 02:38
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Austroraptor are Medium Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Carnivores.
Austroraptor can group up to 2 sub/adults and up to 5 offspring. Austroraptor do not adopt. Austroraptor may collect in the same POI in unlimited numbers, but do not group together.
Austroraptor are tolerant.
Austroraptor can have up to 2 in an engagement; unless mobbing solitary Large tier, or defending their right to remain in the courtship or nesting grounds, in which case they may have 4.
Austroraptor may hunt up to Medium tier. Austroraptor may scavenge.
Austroraptor may exhibit a more submissive or more dominant personality, which varies from individual to individual.
The core aspect of an Austroraptor’s life is the bond they have with their mate, which only continues to grow and expand over their lifetimes. If their mate dies, they may desperately rush to hunch over the body, trying to rouse it.
Austroraptor may attempt to perform conspecific brood parasitism, a behavior done in order to preserve energy and properly raise chicks to full grown. Individuals who are caught doing this are challenged with standoffs, a posturing contest to show dominance.
Austroraptor migrate to dedicated courtship and nesting grounds to meet with the rest of their species.
Austroraptor become territorial over fallen logs and prime fishing spots. They often try to attract the attention of larger nearby dinosaurs in the hope they will push rotten trees over.
Austroraptor enjoy fishing, and clutching small prey in their jaws to drown them.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time: (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 2100
Adjusted Stats:  - Health increased to 650 from 550
Reduced stamina drain on clamp carry
Clamp damage reduced to negligible amounts
 
Quick Links
Top
Growing up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?