Yunnanosaurus was a large sauropodomorph dinosaur from the late Triassic to the early Jurassic period - around 210 million years ago in what is now the Yunnan Province, in China. It reached up to 13 feet in length, is known for being one of the earliest sauropodomorphs, and is the dinosaur that gave rise to massive sauropods. Yunnanosaurus had a long neck and a small head, it was capable of both bipedal and quadrupedal movement.

Author: Costxllo and NorthernEmperor
Photo: Babble
Profile inspired by Giraffes, Moose and other large ungulate and marsupial species.


Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


3_moderate_yunna.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 11.02.2025 22:08
Overview
Details
Large Cathemeral Terrestrial Herbivore
During the Rainy Season, Yunnanosaurus are territorial and form medium territories, have an aggressive nature, and form harem bonds.
During the Dry Season, Yunnanosaurus are nomadic, have a tolerant nature, and form temporary pairbonds
Yunnanosaurus do not group with any other species.
Yunnanosaurus tolerate melanistic individuals, but shun albino and overly pale individuals.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Dry Season Groupings
12 Sub/Adult Females including one lead female
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees
This group is known as a rove.

12 Sub/Adult Males including one lead male
No offspring or adoptees
This group is known as a ramble.

Rainy Season Groupings
8 Sub/Adults, comprising up to 2 males and up to 6 females, one of which is known as the lead female
Unlimited Offspring
Yunnanosaurus do not adopt during the Rainy Season.
This group is known as a clade.

Engagement Limits (Defence)
Predator Reaction: Aggressive
Up to 2 Yunnanosaurus may enter an engagement.
Yunnanosaurus are aggressive towards carnivores up to Large tier, and do not tolerate them within 5 body lengths of their group.
Yunnanosaurus are highly aggressive towards Torvosaurus and Daspletosaurus and will attack them on sight during the rainy season.
Yunnanosaurus ignore Apex carnivores unless the carnivore initiates a hunt, in which case they will flee.

Preferred Diet
Yunnanosaurus predominantly eat roots, nuts, and flowers. 
Juvenile and hatchling Yunnanosaurus prefer to eat sweeter food such as berries and fruit.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 3 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 1 🥚﻿ per 5 hours.
Yunnanosaurus nest near fresh water sources. Their nests are made of reeds, branches and roots.
Yunnanosaurus do not form same sex pairs.

Physical Dimorphism
♂️ Male Yunnanosaurus have dewlaps and are colorful. Males temporarily shed their skin into brighter colors after winning a challenge.
Suitable male subspecies include: Stocky, dermal spiked, and standard
♀️ Female Yunnanosaurus do not have a dewlap and are duller in color.
Suitable female subspecies include: Slim
Subspecies dimorphism for Yunnanosaurus is mandatory. Color dimorphism is not mandatory, but individuals differing from what is typical may face difficulties during courtship.
In addition to physiological dimorphism, Yunnanosaurus also displays behavioral dimorphism. See more under Social Interaction.
 
Growing Up
Offspring Behavior
Hatchling Yunnanosaurus are precocial; they have clear vision and strong muscles almost immediately after hatching. Young that are slow to rise are encouraged to their feet by their mothers, who back away from the nest and call softly - pushing them to follow.
Yunnanosaurus hatchlings are raised entirely by their mothers and any females they are travelling with. Their fathers are not permitted to show interest in their young, and instead spend their time guarding the area and keeping a watchful eye out for danger.
Young are raised communally by all females in the group, and they see all adult females as caregivers, but show some instinctive knowledge of which individual is their biological mother. Males are chased away, until offspring reach Adolescence.
From the start, Yunnanosaurus offspring are plucky and confident, calling out loudly whenever they are hungry and staying close to the females in their group.
By juvenile stage, Yunnanosaurus develop even more confidence, and venture out from beneath their mothers’ feet, exploring the environment and investigating interesting objects.
Female juveniles use this time to start building friendship bonds with any other similar age females; bringing gifts to them and grooming one another.
As the young reach the end of their juvenile age stage, mothers teach their offspring how to balance in a bipedal stance, using their tail for balance. This is an important step for youngsters, so that they learn how to reach low hanging branches from the desert’s flora, and how to present themselves to their full height to intimidate threats.
They demonstrate by stretching upwards onto their hind legs and calling out for the young to witness and copy.
Young Yunnanosaurus are often frustrated trying to learn stability, and will throw small tantrums if they repeatedly lose their balance. They often need comfort and encouragement from the patient adult females of the group. 
A frustrated youngster might try to flee should the lesson not be going their way. 
Adolescent females present within the group often try to help these frustrated youngsters, they teach them patiently and guide them to the correct stance.
Adolescence is an important time for a Yunnanosaurus; males will branch away from their mothers and start to look for a male role model to imitate. 
If they hatched in the Dry Season, into a female-only group, young males will follow one another and stick to the outskirts of the group.
Rainy Season males start to loosely follow their fathers around - not differentiating between either male if two are present - mimicking his behaviors from a short distance away.
Maturing males are sometimes quite defiant, and perform displays of strength including neck smacking, drumming their chests, and mock charging at any siblings or similar-aged offspring. They have no trouble taking advantage of their terrain and often shove their brothers into rocks, or bushes!
Adolescent females begin to demand respect from their siblings, and make a great effort of trying to keep their brothers in check. If a young male grows too rowdy, their sisters may chase them and call aggressively towards them in an attempt to scold them. It is from this point that young males start to grow respect for the females in their group.
Female adolescents may even deliver a blow towards a brother if he is particularly annoying, but will never damage him to get below half health.
When young males reach sub-adult, offspring will behave differently depending on the season and their current grouping. 
In the Rainy Season; the young males will disperse from the group as there is no space for them. Sometimes two brothers that have bonded closely will disperse together and form the beginnings of their own clade.
In the Dry Season; the young males will disperse out of the rove they hatched into, and strike out to find a ramble to join. If two brothers have bonded closely, they may disperse together.
When young females reach sub-adult, they will behave differently depending on the season and their current grouping. 
In the Rainy Season; the young females will disperse from the group to avoid any inbreeding. Sisters with established bonds will always disperse together.
In the Dry Season; females will always try to stay with the rove they hatched into, solidifying bonds between other females. If there is no room, they will disperse in groups.
Orphaned Behavior
In the unfortunate situation where a newly hatched Yunnanosaurus has hatched into an abandoned nest, they face great difficulty surviving into adulthood.
Orphans are born with the same precocial nature as offspring with parents, but on realizing that they have no family to raise them, their voices instinctively fall silent to avoid being detected by opportunistic predators.
Orphaned Yunnanosaurus will always try to seek out a herbivore herd to follow, hoping to have some form of protection while they are still small and vulnerable.
By adolescence, surviving Yunnanosaurus orphans have developed the necessary skills to adapt themselves to their environment, and establish a small network of routes to fresh water and delicious berry bushes. They typically do not explore much beyond the POI they have hatched into, and settle into the familiar grounds until they have grown in both size and confidence.
If an orphaned Yunnanosaurus discovers a group of adults, they are so eager to join that they always try to appease them by bringing gifts, and calling out with a friendly voice.
As adults, previous orphans are often very skittish around predators, even if they are within the protection of a larger group.
These adults also experience some challenges socially; without the close bonds of friendship that are created between similar aged offspring, they are sometimes seen as a bit of an outsider. 
In rare cases, orphaned Yunnanosaurus that mature into adults will choose to live a solitary life, falling back into the familiarity of their hatching ground and preferring to eat berries into their adulthood rather than switching to roots, nuts, and flowers as other adults would.
General Behavior
Yunnanosaurus are very expressive dinosaurs, using loud vocalizations and body language to communicate with each other. Males in particular have loud voices and display often.
Yunnanosaurus have a smooth but tough, leathery hide that protects them from the sun’s rays and shields their bodies from insects. Despite this, when the opportunity presents itself they can be seen enjoying shallow water.
Social interactions are generally performed during the daytime, when individuals can display their colors more easily and can be seen by the whole group if they posture.
This species migrates mostly at night due to the cooler air and to avoid the risk of dehydration from the heat of the sun.
If resources are exhausted during the daytime, Yunnanosaurus will not wait for nightfall and will migrate to another POI to search for food or water. This is only done once in the day - all other travelling is restricted to night.
Yunnanosaurus prefer arid habitats during the Rainy Season, to avoid the excessive humidity of more vegetated biomes. However, in the Dry Season, Yunnanosaurus migrate back to lush areas when their familiar water sources dry up.
In the Rainy Season, Yunnanosaurus have higher fertility rates and gather in mixed sex groups for nesting. They become territorial, claim medium territories, and showcase highly aggressive behaviors to most other species.
This drastically changes in the Dry Season, with Yunnanosaurus splitting into single sex groups, and adopting a nomadic lifestyle - as well as a more tolerant nature.
Social Interaction
In the Dry Season, Yunnanosaurus travel in single sex groups, with females travelling together in a group known as a rove, and males travelling together in a group known as a ramble. These are tolerant of one another and may co-exist in the same POI, but keep themselves a sensible distance away and do not mix members.
During the Rainy Season, Yunnanosaurus groups split up into smaller, mixed-sex groups, known as clades, which come together for nesting and to claim territory. Clades do not tolerate one another within the same territory. 
These groups comprise of up to 2 Sub/Adult males and up to 6 Sub/Adult females.
Yunnanosaurus are a social species, and when solo they may show more anxious behaviors; becoming more flighty and less amiable towards other species. Solitary Yunnanosaurus typically seek out their own kind whenever possible.
When solo, individuals will still stand their ground against predators (unless Apex) but if they notice the predator before they themselves are noticed - they may choose to leave the area and avoid the risk altogether.
Yunnanosaurus have a social hierarchy, with the more popular individuals - who have the most friends in the group - ranking at the top, and newcomers and those with fewer friends ranking at the bottom.
In a rove, the most popular female is known as the lead female and she is the one who first assesses newcomers, and decides on the direction of travel. Similarly, the most popular male in a ramble is known as the lead male and has similar responsibilities.
In a clade, the most popular female takes the role as lead female and the males will submit to her wisdom and knowledge when choosing which individuals are permitted to join their group. Males take a step back from this responsibility and instead focus on the protection of the group, and courting of females.
Introductions between Yunnanosaurus vary by sex. Rejections of strangers does not happen very often, as newcomers have the lowest social standing when they join, and pose no threat to the status of well established individuals.
An approaching female will present herself with her head lowered, calling out quietly and softly. Females within the group are often curious of the newcomer, but will hang back for the lead female to assess them first. When accepted, the lead female will chatter and bob her head and encourage the rest of the group to introduce themselves with similar behaviors. 
A solitary male will introduce himself to the lead male in a group by raising his head and broadcasting to attract their attention, and positions himself for a challenge. The lead male will rush to the newcomer and respond with a similar display, resulting in a loud display of calls and postures. The males will engage in a mock fight, swiping claws towards their opponent but never actually dealing any damage. If the stranger doesn’t back down the lead male will cease his aggression and give a friendly call, allowing the new male to join the group.
A male that submits to a lead male is seen as weak, and unsuitable to join the group. He must hold his confidence and present himself well to be accepted.
Lead males may reject a male from their group with an aggressive call and tail slam before leaving the male behind and moving on with his group.
Regardless of gender, Yunnanosaurus will always reject albinos or overly pale individuals, sometimes those with odd or lacking behaviors. When showing rejection, females will rear up and face off the stranger, and males slam their tail before turning around and leaving.
Strangers may show confusion and continue attempting to join the group, but if they persist they risk being attacked or chased out.
Yunnanosaurus build up social bonds with other individuals by mimicking one another. This behavior is seen as flattery, and a pair that mimics each other's actions and calls become friends over time.
Males will also bond through play fights and will chase one another about, making loud calls and generally being rowdy with each other!
Females also bond by walking close by to each other, giving affectionate gestures, grooming, gifting each other items and raising their young together.
Male and female Yunnanosaurus do not bond with one another, but rather coexist with each other during breeding season only.
Aggressive Interaction
Rove and Ramble Challenges
Yunnanosaurus during the Dry Season aren’t inherently aggressive towards each other and will almost always accept stranger Yunnanosaurus into their group if they are of the same sex.
Females may become aggressive towards males during the Dry Season, as they are less tolerant of them and prefer to avoid them altogether as they are outside of the breeding season.
If the females have adoptees in the Dry Season, they will always be aggressive towards males.
Yunnanosaurus respond to aggression by taking on a taller stance and beating on their chest aggressively towards the threat.
When aggression is shown by a female towards a male he will always back down and flee from her with a fear call.
Males of this species generally show respect and deference towards females, and if they show aggression it is always towards other males. Males may demonstrate their strength to one another by swinging their necks towards one another and standing tall to posture at them.

Clade Challenges
During the Rainy Season, males and females come together to form a clade for breeding purposes. At this time, Yunnanosaurus within a clade will become territorial.
A clade challenge may be for the females, territory, or both.
When two clades come across each other, a territory challenge is immediately issued. During the challenge only the males of the clade will fight with one another, females will stay back and posture or call aggressively.
When challenging for females, at least one mature female must not actively have young so that she may be courted. If no female is available to court, males will seek females elsewhere.
If one group has only one male, he may choose to either go on with the challenge, or may choose to forfeit. A female will never physically engage during a clade challenge.
Females during these challenges will form a line on either side of the engagement and stay with their own clade to call out encouragement to their males, and attempt to intimidate the opposing side with aggressive calls and tail slamming.
If the fight comes too close to them, the females will flee in the opposite direction and always maintain a safe distance.
A forfeit occurs when either side issue a friendly call, or if the engaged males on one side both reach half health. The forfeit ends all combat, and the losing side leaves the POI, having lost the challenge.
If the rival males win, females choose to stay in the current territory with the winning males to ensure hers - as well as her group's - safety.
Females never travel with males. In the case a male has lost his territory to one reason or another, females will find him weak and unsuitable. They instead will choose to move on separate from unimpressive males to seek out a new clade.
While all females may make their own choices, most prefer to follow the Lead Female's decision.
 
Cross-Species Interaction
Regardless of season, Yunnanosaurus do not tolerate any ceratopsians within 5 body lengths of their group.
Yunnanosaurus will aggressively drive away any ceratopsian species from a resource they are defending.
Yunnanosaurus also dislikes Rhamphorhynchus, who often attempt to approach them in hopes of cleaning insects from their hides. Yunnanosaurus take great offense to this, and will drive away any irritating Rhamphorhynchus that enter their personal space.

Dry Season
Yunnanosaurus is tolerant to all herbivore species except ceratopsians during the Dry Season; the high temperatures and dry weather bring about a sense of peace and calm to these sun loving dinosaurs.
Despite their docile nature during the Dry Season, Yunnanosaurus do not group with any other herbivores; protecting their resources while travelling is of the utmost importance to them.

Rainy Season
During the Rainy Season, Yunnanosaurus are aggressive to all other species of any age, and are territorial.
Herbivores are seen as a threat to resources that must be protected for future offspring, and carnivores are not tolerated at all.
Yes, even hatchling Citipati or excitable Compsognathus
Apex species are ignored unless an Apex carnivore hunts an Yunnanosaurus, which will cause them to flee.

Friendship with Lurdusaurus
Despite living separate lives from each other for half the year - with Yunnanosaurus moving back to the eastern regions in the Rainy Season - both Yunnanosaurus and Lurdusaurus form unique bonds with one another.
A friendship begins in the Dry Season, when Yunnanosaurus migrate west in search of water sources. Forced into more humid biomes, they often happen across territorial groups of Lurdusaurus in the waters.
Lurdusaurus share a kinship with Yunnanosaurus; both species have similar smooth skin and long bodies, and are intolerant of most carnivores. When a Yunnnanosaurus crosses the water, Lurdusaurus greet their terrestrial cousins with calls of joy and sometimes leap out of the water to perform for them.
Both species find one another entertaining, Lurdusaurus greatly enjoy the sight of their long necked friends with their odd appearance, and Yunnanosaurus find great amusement in the parading of Lurdusaurus in the water, sometimes pausing by the shore in hopes that a Lurdusaurus will leap for them.
Yunnanosaurus will sometimes even remember their Lurdusaurus friends and seek them out when the Dry Season begins to exchange friendly calls and spend a few moments together. As Yunnanosaurus travel often during the Dry Season, Lurdusaurus may attempt to follow them through rivers, or may simply bid them farewell until they meet again.
 
Predator Reaction
Yunnanosaurus is intolerant of any Large or below carnivore species. In particular, Yunnanosaurus will attack Daspletosaurus and Torvosaurus on sight in the rainy season, without any warning, if they are noticed.
Yunnanosaurus will only give chase if the carnivore refuses to flee from them. They will otherwise launch aggressive calls and threaten the species, before turning back to their group when the carnivore begins to leave.
Yunnanosaurus accept forfeit calls from these species, but only if they flee immediately after. If the carnivore continues to linger within 3 body lengths of the Yunnanosaurus, they may continue to be attacked until they flee further.
Despite their usual aggression, Yunnanosaurus ignores Apex predators, as they have an innate understanding that they are unlikely to win an engagement with them. If an Apex predator approaches a Yunnanosaurus, they will flee.
Up to 2 Yunnanosaurus may take part in an engagement to defend or aggress another species.
When threatened, Yunnanosaurus takes an aggressive stance, raising themselves up onto their hind legs to show off their towering height. Following this, they beat their chest rhythmically to produce a loud drumming noise.
In a clade, male Yunnanosaurus are inherently more aggressive than their female counterparts and are always the first to respond to danger. They sometimes mock-charge at their opponent, stopping clear of actually causing any harm - to showcase their strength and fitness.
As the primary line of defence, males will not stray far from their group when travelling; a male is always ready to protect the clade or lead male ready to protect the ramble, if required.
Lead females are the first to step up and defend their rove, if threatened by a predator.
 
Courtship & Parenthood
All courtship for Yunnanosaurus occurs during the day, regardless of season.

Rainy Season
During the Rainy Season, mature Yunnanosaurus experience an increase in fertility, and instinctively move from same sex groups to mixed sex clades to provide courting opportunities.
Males take the lead by first claiming and securing a Medium-sized territory. Males in the same group work together in pairs to fend off rival males (and other species), and maintain a safe and protected area for their clade to raise future offspring.
If there are two males present in the clade, they first challenge one another to determine which will hold the dominant status, before any courtship begins.
Both males will rise up on their hind legs, beating their chest and aggressively bellowing at one another as they slowly circle one another, drawing closer together. 
If neither male backs down, this escalates to a battle: fought entirely by smacking their necks hard against each other repeatedly.
The fighting continues until one of the males reaches half health or less, which forces the weaker male to submit.
Once a dominance challenge has been won, the dominant male flushes his body by shedding his skin into brighter colors, signifying his new status. He maintains his status for the whole of the nesting season - but can be challenged against next time, or by other males.
A nesting season starts when the group wishes to nest, and ends when the offspring from that nesting are grown to Adolescent, or a previously un-courted female wishes to nest.
After losing a challenge, the less dominant male keeps his harmony with the clade and continues to work together with his male companion to defend their claimed territory. His position means that he is not allowed any courting rights to females, but he can challenge again in the future.
Once the dominant male is established - either by default, or by winning a challenge, that male will parade around his territory, broadcasting loudly to draw the attention of any nearby females which may already be in his group, or may be watching nearby.
Interested females will approach the male, inspecting him carefully. Delighted, he circles around them, continuing his loud calls, and standing up tall while beating on his chest to show off his strength.
If a female is not impressed with his display, she will turn her back on him and move away. Some unimpressed females will even leave the territory and group entirely, in search of a new, more exciting male.
If there are carnivores present in the male’s territory that he has not yet driven out, females will reject all courting advances until those predators have been driven out.
If she accepts his advances, she will call back to him affectionately, and seat herself nearby. The male continues courtship calling until he is certain that all females nearby have decided either to accept him, or to ignore his advances.
The male will assist nest construction with any females that have accepted him as a mate. If there is a less dominant male present in the clade, he may choose to assist nest building in the hopes of gaining favor with the females and increasing his courting chances next season, if he wins a future dominance challenge. 
Typically, the other male ignores all courting and nesting activity and will focus on patrolling the territory borders while his clade is busy.
Dry Season Courtship
During the Dry Season, courtship only rarely occurs. Yunnanosaurus are more tolerant of one another, and emotions are typically calm. Without any drive to claim a territory and put on a courting display, nesting in the Dry Season is a lacklustre affair.
If a male notices a female and wishes to nest with her, he remains in his ramble but follows the female in her rove, calling softly towards her.
Should the female be interested in his advances, she may fall behind her group and consider his offer.
The male circles her, calling softly and gently, and she either turns away and rejoins her rove to signal rejection, or responds with friendly calls and sits to show acceptance.
Once the pair have successfully courted, the female returns to her group and the male returns to his. The rove will work together to build the nest and raise any offspring, without the presence of males. 
Males will only nest with one female at a time in the Dry Season, due to their lower fertility levels. There is no jealousy between males, and males do not challenge one another.
Male and female Yunnanosaurus do not group in-game at this time.
If the male is within a ramble, the group may stay within the same POI to observe any offspring that hatch, and may leave marks on nearby trees or rocks. This is to encourage any young sons to join their ramble, once they mature and leave the rove they were born in.
Parenthood
Yunnanosaurus offspring are raised by the females of the group - if they hatch within a clade, the males focus their time on patrolling and defending their territory. 
Until Adolescence, female Yunnanosaurus will not allow males to get near to the young in their care and will call aggressively to any that attempt to come close.
Female Yunnanosaurus share the responsibility of raising young, and work together to ensure the youngsters have enough to eat and are each given enough attention. 
Baby Yunnanosaurus instinctively know who their biological mother is, but consider all adult females to be their caregivers equally.
Mothers will guard bushes from males, ensuring that their young have access to food. Males that get too close to bushes, may be treated aggressively, and forced to back off.
As the offspring mature, mothers indulge their young when they choose to bring them gifts, and groom one another. They call softly and encourage these social behaviors.
Towards the end of their juvenile stage, the mothers will teach offspring how to balance on their tails, in a bipedal stance. Teaching them how to reach up tall and eat from low hanging branches, and to present themselves as imposing to potential threats.
Adolescent Yunnanosaurus that mimic an adult are praised and adults may bond closely to youngsters that take a particular shine to them.
At Adolescence, males will eagerly approach the offspring and will greet them, encouraging young males to follow them around and teach them how to patrol and defend a territory.
When young reach Sub-Adult, males will disperse after spending a few moments with the adults of their group; showing their appreciation towards their mothers for raising them, and saying goodbye to the fathers - if they are encountered again in the Rainy Season they may be driven away.
In the Dry Season, Sub-Adult females will stay if possible, but in the Rainy Season they will disperse together to avoid inbreeding within the group. Females spend time with their mothers, imprinting their scent into their mind so that they can join one another in the Dry Season.
Elderly & End of Life (Optional)
As Yunnanosaurus age, their coloration begins to dull and their skin becomes darker - showcasing any scars they may have earned in their youth.
Despite their age, elderly males still form territories during the Rainy Season, which they maintain to the best of their abilities.
Due to their dull coloration, they often have difficulty attracting any females and may be rejected much more often.
Elderly Yunnanosaurus slow down and become more sedentary rather than nomadic in the Dry Season. They prefer not to travel as often, and sometimes prefer to lay in caves or take shelter under trees. 
When they do travel, they lag behind the group, unfortunately leaving them open to being picked off by predators.
Despite their age, elderly individuals are respected heavily by their group and are never left behind.
As they advance in their years, and their life begins to come to a close, these ancient Yunnanosaurus are unable to travel at all. They lay down in a favorite resting spot, and reflect on the adventures of their youth in their final moments. 
Group members with close bonds to the dying elder will stay close by, keeping them company until the end, and paying their respects to the body before moving on.
Yunnanosaurus will always remember their friends that have passed away.
Notes
None
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-40-50-70 = 180 total
Combat Weight: 4500
Adjusted Stats:
⁨
- Body Slam Damage increased to 100 from 85
- Claw attack damage increased to 70 from 50
- Neck slap damage increased to 50 from 40
- Turn in place multiplier increased
- Tail damage decreased to 35 from 50
- Increased health from 850 to 1000
⁩ 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.06.2025 22:00
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 22:47
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Large Cathemeral Terrestrial Herbivore
Physical dimorphism is mandatory; males have dewlaps and females don’t.
Rainy Season: territorial and form medium territories, have an aggressive nature, and form harem bonds. Group as a clade with up to 2 males, and up to 6 females.
Dry Season: nomadic, have a tolerant nature, and form temporary pairbonds. Group in single sex groups up to 12, with a lead individual. Male groups are rambles and female groups are roves.
Up to 2 Yunnanosaurus may enter an engagement. They are aggressive to carnivores up to Large tier and any ceratopsians within 5 body lengths of their group., but ignore Apex or flee if hunted. 
Daspletosaurus and Torvosaurus are attacked on sight, without warning, and aggressed until they flee.
Males in a clade, and lead individuals in roves and rambles are the primary defenders, and the first to engage.
Offspring are raised by females communally, males must wait to greet them until Adolescence. Females may defend bushes from males to ensure the offspring can eat. 
Male offspring disperse at Sub-Adult, females stay if it is Dry Season but disperse in Rainy.
Males in a clade will fight one another before courting to establish who is the dominant male. The dominant male has courting rights, and the less dominant may not court that season.
Yunnanosaurus have a unique friendship with Lurdusaurus, who they greet in the Dry Season while crossing rivers and spending time near bodies of water.
Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?