Pycnonemosaurus
    "Pycno"
Pycnonemosaurus are large, carnivorous dinosaurs that travel endlessly across Gondwa in search of prey - or simply entertainment. Often referred to as clownish, they enjoy following and chasing various species. Brutish, these carnivores often shove and push at each other, but seem to mutually enjoy this type of roughhousing.

⁨⁨
Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Skylark & TheGamingGorgo 
Includes ideas from: BunniesAreCool
Photo: Voyen
Profile inspired by big cats, wild boars and bison.
⁩⁩

Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 01.09.2025 23:46
Overview
Bild
Large Cathemeral Terrestrial Carnivore
Pycnonemosaurus form harem bonds.
Pycnonemosaurus are nomadic.
Pycnonemosaurus have a tolerant nature.
Pycnonemosaurus are not scavengers.
Pycnonemosaurus shun albino, but tolerate melanistic individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Pycnonemosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 5 Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a drove.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 3 Adolescent+ Pycnonemosaurus may enter an engagement or hunt.
Individuals below the age of adolescent do not count towards the limit.
Solo Pycnonemosaurus flee from Apex carnivores.
In a group with no adults present: Adolescent Pycnonemosaurus may hunt up to Large tier if they are solo, or any tier if grouped with 2+ members.

Preferred Prey/Diet
Pycnonemosaurus always target carnivores first when hunting. They may not hunt a herbivore if a suitable carnivore prey is within line of sight.
Pycnonemosaurus may hunt up to Large tier if they are solo, or any tier if grouped with 2+ members.
Pycnonemosaurus ignore all Small tier and below carnivores, and only kill them in defence.
However, Pycnonemosaurus may hunt any attended or unattended hatchling or juvenile individuals at any time-- whether herbivore or carnivore.
Pycnonemosaurus do not cannibalize.
Pycnonemosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 3 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 3 hour.
Pycnonemosaurus nest anywhere in their preferred POIs.
Pycnonemosaurus may form same-sex pairs, but may not nest & may adopt.

Physical Dimorphism
This profile does have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Females, known as sows, lack the horns and spikes males have, and are usually duller.
Suitable subspecies include: Imperator
♂️ Males, known as boars, have horns and spikes, and flashier coloration.
Suitable subspecies include: Nevesi, Taurinus
Physical dimorphism for Pycnonemosaurus is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Pycnonemosaurus offspring, known as shoats, are bold and tenacious from the moment they hatch out of the egg. Their first instinct is to get up onto their feet, and immediately begin exploring their surroundings - which is usually in a nest surrounded by dense coverage - or sometimes a cave if their parents have found a large enough one to nest in.
Pycnonemosaurus are demanding from the start: as they grow quickly, their demand for food is near constant and they make this known by noisily calling for it from their bewildered mother.
Their boisterous nature drives them to explore anything and everything around them. They frequently pick up and bite at whatever objects are nearby - anything from their parent's feet or tail, to siblings, to branches and foliage.
Shoats are loud and rambunctious; their mother doesn’t interfere with small scraps and playful roughhousing, but if more than a couple of bites land on a sibling, the mother steps in to provide a stern telling off.
Once the little shoats reach Juvenile, they are brought out from the safety of their nest and introduced to the rest of the drove. This brings great excitement to the youngsters, and they greet all new experiences with boundless energy.
When the Juvenile shoats are on their feet and exploring freely, the drove resumes its nomadic lifestyle and nests are deconstructed so that the group can move on.
On the move, shoats keep up with their adult drove members - usually sticking close behind their mother but often getting distracted and following any adult sized Pycnonemosaurus that they have been introduced to.
Shoats are difficult to teach, as they get so distracted by anything that draws their attention. When parents attempt to teach their young to hunt, it often ends up with startled prey and excited shoats calling out with joy.
By adolescence, Pycnonemosaurus offspring are expected to begin hunting critters and start being able to find their own food instead of being provided for by the rest of the drove.
Shoats that try chasing down their own critters may accidentally draw themselves far from their drove members, and if they realize this, they call out fearfully and charge back in the direction their family was last seen. Mothers may not even realize their shoats had gone, especially if they themselves were distracted by something else.
At Sub-Adult, offspring are welcomed to stay if there is enough room. Otherwise, the mature offspring will drift away from the drove, exploring further away and seeking out a smaller drove to join, or starting one of their own.
 
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned Pycnonemosaurus shoats often have rocky childhoods. Their distracted but enthusiastic nature can sometimes lead them into harm's way.
Without the protection of a drove, orphaned shoats are less confident, but equally keen to explore. They often dart about between bushes, and peek curiously at other species that pass by.
If they are lucky, they will come across a drove of adult Pycnonemosaurus, which will usually adopt them.
As adults, orphaned Pycnonemosaurus are not as adept at social interactions within a drove; they enjoy the rough play, but often back out too soon or shy away from all-out play fights. They’re unsure of their standing, and haven’t grown up with siblings or family members to get them used to the proper way of things when shoving one another about.
Bild
Pycnonemosaurus are very bold and loud animals; commonly referred to as "bullish". They travel their preferred hunting grounds frequently - never really settling in one POI for long unless courting or nesting in the area.
This fun loving species has a very short attention span. Pycnonemosaurus are very easily distracted and enjoy following different dinosaurs around - posturing and swaying their heads playfully to jest around, and often confusing them. 
Pycnonemosaurus do not bond with other species, but see them as entertainment and may focus on individuals for a short period of time before moving on.
Pycnonemosaurus have a natural drive to keep moving, searching for food and favorable resting spots. Their curiosity sometimes leads them into dens, caves, or thick foliage, where they explore - just because they can.
When not playing or sniffing out prey, Pycnonemosaurus never bypasses the opportunity to bask in the sun, and take a quick swim in shallow water as the weather cools.
Pycnonemosaurus love sitting and laying in mud to cool off and protect their skin from sun and parasites. This often turns into a playful social event, with individuals bumping and shoving each other for the best spot.
Pycnonemosaurus are cathemeral, meaning they are awake and active at most times of the day. They take short, frequent naps - especially in a warm spot where they can bask.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Pycnonemosaurus often take short naps in open spaces. They do not often build nests as they will quickly move on from these resting locations at the sight of a threat or prey moving elsewhere.
Pycnonemosaurus shoats will play while their parents sleep, often with much noise and scuffling, which can frustrate especially tired adults.
Pycnonemosaurus will sleep multiple times in a full day cycle, often in short bursts immediately after a robust period of play or an attempted/successful hunt.
 
Bild
✦ Drove
Pycnonemosaurus often form small groups of any relation. They are not necessarily picky when it comes to social interactions and form loose friendships with others.
Just as easily, a Pycnonemosaurus may break away from the group to search for different friends.
Pycnonemosaurus enjoy butting heads and pushing each other around. Such behaviors are extended to offspring and youngsters adore rough housing with their older group members.
Pycnonemosaurus frequently engage in mock displays: both with others in their group, and other dinosaurs they encounter. This usually consists of loud vocalizations and head bobbing. 
Displaying to another Pycnonemosaurus (typically one of the same sex) and having them respond with mimicking displays serves to reinforce bonds between individuals and strengthen existing friendships.
Pycnonemosaurus that ignore another’s displays may be seen as rude, and may be ignored by others for a short period of time, until they inevitably forget about it and resume friendly interactions.
Pack structures are fairly equal, with one of the boars taking the respected dominant boar status; to monopolize breedings rights with the sows in the group. 
This boar tends to be the most dominant and physical in the group, he never backs down from a game of rough housing and almost always comes out on top.
Dominant boars are also determined by a dominance fight, outlined in Aggressive Interaction.
Other boars within the drove are not permitted to sire any offspring while they do not hold the dominant position.
Dominant boars are respected by the other drove members, and others will always move away slightly so that he can eat from a corpse if he wishes to.
Droves are not territorial, and if they encounter one another they spend a great deal of time posturing and displaying their swaying calls. If they are bold enough, they may step up and initiate a short game of playfighting with the other drove.
After a short game, the two droves part ways to ensure that there are enough resources for each drove to sustain themselves. They split into different POIs where possible, to avoid disturbing the other’s hunting ground.
✦ Solitary Behavior
When alone, Pycnonemosaurus continue to engage in typical behaviors. 
Solitary individuals may display to their reflections in water or toward other species they encounter, still partaking in head bobbing and low vocalizations. Though they lack the social reinforcement of a group, these displays may serve to entertain themselves or rehearse for future interactions.
Without peers to roughhouse with, they may push against trees or roll fallen logs to simulate familiar play.
Solitary Pycnonemosaurus are also more vulnerable and cautious, always choosing to flee from Apex carnivores, a stark contrast to the confidence they display when backed by a drove.
Once a solitary Pycnonemosaurus encounters a drove, both parties typically approach one another with curiosity, bobbing their heads and inspecting each other. If the drove has space and is not at its social limit, the solitary individual is usually accepted without resistance.
If there is no space in the drove they will usually just move on after the short interaction - but if the drove has enough individuals, some of them might choose to go with the newly met individual.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Albino individuals are never tolerated by other Pycnonemosaurus; they will always be driven away and never accepted into a group. The overly pale individuals are seen as fragile, and would not cope with the constant rough play. Pycnonemosaurus are not intentionally cruel to one another, and prefer to exclude sickly appearing Albinos because they cannot socialise in the same way as healthy ones can.
Albinos are rejected by shoving, pushing them out of the nearby area. If the Albino is persistent, the drove will leave the POI or may resort to actual attacks to prove their point - not aiming to kill, just to push them out.
Melanistic individuals are treated no differently from non-mutated individuals.
Bild
Pycnonemosaurus rarely escalate their rough play into an actual fight. Aggressive interactions are seen as playful, and responded to in kind.
Rough play includes biting, shoving, charging, and chasing one another about.
Those that become injured will pull away to rest and recharge before their health gets too low.
✦ Establishing the dominant boar within the drove
To establish which boar is the dominant boar, boars within a drove will sometimes initiate a dominance fight with one another. If one boar is very clearly more dominant than the others, they will accept him in the position. If two are butting heads often, they might prefer to fight it out.
Boars will square off with one another, circling while snapping at the air.
The fight consists purely of shoving one another, face-on, until one boar shoves the other far out of the space that the fight initiated.
The losing boar will back off when he is pushed far enough away (5 body lengths) and accept his position as subordinate.
Dominant boars hold their status until the next courting event has taken place, and once shoats reach Sub-Adult and sows are considering accepting courting advances - the boars may re-initiate a dominance fight.
Bild
Pycnonemosaurus have a curious nature, and short attention spans. They follow whatever catches their attention and do not hesitate to approach other species to watch from a short distance away, or display towards them. 
After some consideration, watching a prey species may turn into a hunt.
Pycnonemosaurus enjoy a chase, and will run down anything that flees from them, purely for fun! If they catch up, they turn away, finding the species boring if it is no longer running.
Pycnonemosaurus rarely back down when met with a threat - they adopt the mentality of high risk, high reward and fiercely defend themselves and one another when met with aggression. Due to their tendency to never shy away from confrontation, it is only when it looks like all might be lost will they reluctantly retreat.
Pycnonemosaurus typically have bold and outgoing personalities, they have little fear of other predators. It is only if an individual is solo that he or she will fear Apex carnivores, and flee from them.
Small tier carnivore are ignored and only engaged with for defensive purposes. They are simply too entertaining for a Pycnonemosaurus to bother hunting.
Carnivores larger than Small tier are seen as prime targets, and hunted as a priority over herbivores.
Pycnonemosaurus tolerate scavengers as long as they have access to the corpse.
Bild
Pycnonemosaurus will always target other carnivores first if both carnivores and herbivores are seen in the POI. They spend much of their lives teasing herbivores and following along curiously, but carnivores are an exciting challenge and are always the favored hunting targets.
With their strong legs and endless energy, Pycnonemosaurus are endurance hunters, possessing the ability to run down their prey, biting at their flanks to weaken them before catching up to launch a full attack.
Up to 3 Adol+ Pycnonemosaurus may enter an engagement or hunt.
Individuals below the age of adolescent do not count towards the limit.
Bild
✦ Courtship
Only the dominant boar within a drove is permitted to court the sows in the group.
He will seek out an interesting item to present to the rest of the group. This item is often a small curiosity; a mushroom, a pinecone, a shell from the beach, for example. Anything small and interesting that prompts the females to come and investigate.
The dominant boar places his item in a clear space, and calls loudly to attract attention to himself. When the sows notice, they come and look over his chosen artifact and watch him as he displays to them by dancing - with swaying head bobs.
Subordinate boars that see the dominant boar displaying for his sows will sometimes try and copy his behavior - choosing a trinket of his own, and laying it carefully on open ground.
Dominant boars that witness this are extremely confused, and take the trinket to add to their own, giving the subordinate a shove out of the way to prove his point. 
Subordinate boars are not permitted to court, and the dominant boar will shove any other boars away from sows if they attempt it.
Sows that are interested in courting may be impressed by this display, and will mimic his head swaying behavior, stepping closer and calling affectionately towards him. Multiple sows may all accept courting advances from the dominant boar at the same time.
✦ Nesting
After courting, sows rush to find a suitable location for their nest, with the dominant boar and any other submissive boars following behind with interest.
Boars rarely assist in nest building, but take great pleasure in following the sows and watching them assemble their nests.
Boars that have stronger bonds with sows may choose to assist their nest building, following them to a resource to collect building materials and bringing them back to the nesting spot for her.
Nests are built fairly close together, with a short distance between nests so that the Pycnonemosaurus sow has enough room to defend her personal space from others.
✦ Parenthood
Mothers are very protective over their hatchling offspring, known as shoats. The excitable youngsters are born with strength and energy, and the mother keeps a close eye over them as they explore the nest. She will defend her nest from any other that approaches, while the offspring are hatchlings.
At Juvenile, the mother encourages her shoats out into the open and calls to her group members so that they can be properly introduced. At this age, the young are slightly bigger and less likely to be trampled - her protective instincts start to subside and she accepts that the other drove members will defend her shoats if needed.
Pycnonemosaurus mothers are protective, but do not coddle their young. Offspring are allowed the freedom to roam about, as long as they are within line of sight of a drove member.
All drove members share responsibility of teaching shoats to hunt and how to survive. Mothers are directly responsible for their young, but Pycnonemosaurus take great interest in the small versions of themselves and guide shoats through their youth.
On reaching adolescence, adults in the group start to include the offspring in their rough play - mock charging, shoving, and playfully biting their tails to encourage them to play and bond with drove members.
✦ Offspring Maturity
When the young Pycnonemosaurus reach Sub-Adult, they stay within the drove if there is space for them, or trail off into the distance chasing something that has caught their eye, and moving on to different horizons to start a drove of their own, or join a smaller drove with room to welcome them in.
✦ Adoption
If an orphan approaches a drove, it is usually welcomed in and a sow will claim it as her own, she will treat it as if it was her own offspring.
If the group does not have any sows, a boar will step up and claim the offspring, guiding it through it’s youth as best he can. Orphans raised by boars are often more rough with their play, and more bold when interacting with others.
Bild
Elder Pycnonemosaurus are less active and rely on the group for protection and food. They tend to linger near nests or resting areas while younger members take on the majority of hunting responsibilities.
With their old age, they find themselves with less energy to interact well with other drove members. They may be looked over when others are seeking playmates, and often feel neglected or ignored by the rest of their group.
Without any malicious intentions, the group may accidentally leave behind elder members - not realizing they have stopped to snooze, or cannot keep up with the energy of the rest of the group.
After being left behind, elder Pycnonemosaurus may break away from the group and continue life as a solo individual.
✦ Death
Solo Elders are often easy targets for predators, and call out with confusion for their drove to protect them. When no one comes to their aid, they sometimes.. give up. They stop fighting back and allow nature to take its course, reflecting briefly on all the joys they have experienced in their youth, and welcoming the safe darkness of unconsciousness.
Bild
Pycnonemosaurus are very playful and can often be seen bobbing their head at other species, following them around for a short period of time.
Pycnonemosaurus will chase anything that runs from them.
Bild
RULE EXEMPTIONS
Pycnonemosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 21:16
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 03:26
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Pycnonemosaurus are Large Cathemeral Terrestrial Carnivores.
Pycnonemosaurus can group up to 5 sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees. This group is known as a drove.
Pycnonemosaurus are tolerant.
Pycnonemosaurus can have up to 3 Adolescent+ in an engagement or hunting party.
Pycnonemosaurus may hunt Any tier except Small carnivores, and must target carnivores primarily. Pycnonemosaurus may not scavenge.
If solo, Pycnonemosaurus flees from Apex carnivores.
Pycnonemosaurus are physical with one another and enjoy shoving each other around and roughhousing. They are easily distracted, and investigate things that draw their attention.
Pycnonemosaurus are nomadic, and travel vast distances across multiple POIs to help sustain their voracious appetite.
Adults in the drove actively protect shoats but avoid coddling, encouraging strength and independence through roughhousing and hunting lessons.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-40-50-70 = 180 total
Combat Weight: 3500
Adjusted Stats:
- Bite cooldown reduced to 1.2 from 1.5
- Charge damage increased to 100 from 90
- Max health increased to 650 from 550
 
Profile in Under 60 Seconds - Video Series
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EM-fldTle_I
YouTube
Dynasty Realism
Dynasty Realism - Profiles in Under 60 Seconds - Pycnonemosaurus

Bild
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?