Torvosaurus
    "Torvo"
Torvosaurus is a large theropod carnivore that forms large groups, known as packs. Led by a single male, the females are responsible for hunting and providing for the group, while males fend off rivals and keep the group's temporary POI safe.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Kittyful & Zesty Filip
Includes ideas from: Zesty Filip
Photo: Beadil
Profile inspired by lions.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond



4_complex_torvo.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 01.09.2025 23:20
Overview
Bild
Large Cathemeral Terrestrial Carnivore
Torvosaurus hunts exclusively during the day, but may perform all other activities at any time.
Torvosaurus form harem bonds.
Torvosaurus are sedentary.
Torvosaurus are territorial towards other Torvosaurus when in a full pack, and will not share a POI with them.
The only exception is if Ampelosaurus, Apatosaurus or Argentinosaurus are in the POI. Torvosaurus will tolerate other Torvosaurus in this instance to work together to bring down one of these sauropods.
Solitary males or coalitions are nomadic, in search of opportunities and females.
Torvosaurus have an aggressive nature.
Torvosaurus are not scavengers.
Torvosaurus cannibalize albino and tolerate melanistic individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Species include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 4 Sub/Adults, comprising 1 unrelated male and up to 3 females of any relation.
In addition, up to 3 Sub/Adult female offspring that remain with the pack while the parents are not nesting.
These adult relations must disperse before the parents can nest again.
This must be logged in the ⁠🩸・bloodline-logs, and can only be the most recent offspring.
Unlimited Offspring
Torvosaurus in this grouping do not adopt.

This group is known as a pack.

Up to 2 Sub/Adult males of any relation.
No offspring or adoptees.

This group is known as a coalition. They must separate before females can join them.

Up to 3 Sub/Adult females of any relation.
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a sisterhood.

Additionally, Torvosaurus may form dispersal groups consisting of unlimited individuals of Adolescent and below.
 
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
✦ Defence
Up to 4 Torvosaurus may rally together to defend each other from other species.
This includes Adolescents.
✦ Hunting & Body Contests
Torvosaurus can only hunt during the day.
Torvosaurus can hunt any tier, but may only hunt up to Large tier when solo.
Adolescent Torvosaurus can assist with their parents’ hunts, up to the limit of 3.
Solo Adolescent Torvosaurus may attempt to hunt up to Medium tier.
Only Female Torvosaurus may attempt to hunt.
Male Torvosaurus do not hunt. Instead, they may attempt to contest for a body owned to Medium tier or smaller.
Hunting Party Limits:
Hunting parties are limited to 3 females.
Solo or paired males would rather contest for a body, but may hunt as a last resort.
If fewer than 3 females are in a pack, a male may temporarily join hunts until the pack reaches 3 females.
Mobbing:
Torvosaurus may mob following species: Ampelosaurus, Apatosaurus, Argentinosaurus
Torvosaurus may form temporary alliances with other Torvosaurus to mob hunt, with a maximum of 6 Sub/Adult females between both parties.
These alliances consist of separate groups and are temporary for hunting purposes only.
Males may assist in mob hunts against sauropods if there are fewer than 3 females in either pack.
If a pack has enough females in it already to begin a mob, they can do so without forming an alliance with another pack.
Body Contests:
The same restrictions apply as hunting. Mobbing is not allowed during body contests.
✦ Pack Takeovers
Male Torvosaurus attempting to take over another male's pack must fight solo.
Females do not assist males during these pack takeovers.
See Aggressive Behavior for more details.
✦ Driving Out Rival Torvosaurus
Engagement Limits:
Up to 4 Sub/Adults may work together to drive out rival Torvosaurus from the POI.
Torvosaurus must allow rivals to leave the POI rather than hunt them if they are on a timer.
Exceptions:
Packs with space for another female may tolerate rival females to encourage recruitment.
If another pack arrives, the male may decide to challenge the other male for his female(s), depending on how many they have room for. This is signified by the male challenging the other male directly, and not the females. Females watch from the sides and do not join in, unlike when the pack normally drives out rivals.
Coalitions and solitary males tolerate solitary females or sisterhoods within the POI.
Sisterhoods tolerate males and other females if there is space for them.
Sauropod Presence:
If Argentinosaurus, Apatosaurus or Ampelosaurus are in the POI, all Torvosaurus groups permit other Torvosaurus in the area to facilitate mob hunting. Amargasaurus does not count.
 
Preferred Prey/Diet
Priority hunting targets for Torvosaurus are Amargasaurus. This the main species Torvosaurus target, and must be hunted first above all other species if in the POI.
When Amargasaurus is not available, and mobbing larger sauropods is not possible, they prioritize hunting ceratopsian species (Eotriceratops, Pachyrhinosaurus, Nasutoceratops, Styracosaurus and Albertaceratops). 
If Apatosaurus, Argentinosaurus or Ampelosaurus are in the POI, Torvosaurus will temporarily tolerate another Torvosaurus pack in the area. They may form a temporary (ungrouped) alliance to initiate a mob hunt against these species.
If there are two packs in the area and these sauropods are present, these species must be the primary target for Torvosaurus.
When none of these species are available in the POI, Torvosaurus has no preference and may hunt whatever it is able to.
Torvosaurus can hunt any tier, but Large tier or lower when solo.
Torvosaurus will readily cannibalize and hunt others of their kind. See Aggressive Behavior for more information.
Torvosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️ ☀️﻿ Rainy & Dry Season: 1-3 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
You must use the bot command /rolleggs Torvosaurus in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to determine the eggs your female lays before making your nesting post. You must link this roll inside of the nesting post. 
Torvosaurus nest anywhere in their preferred POIs, though they prefer to nest near sources of roots or bones if possible.
If a rival male kills or chases away all the offspring of a female, her nesting timer is reset and she may nest again.
Females may form same-sex bonds but can still nest with males.

Physical Dimorphism
Physical dimorphism for Torvosaurus is not mandatory.  Behavioral greetings are mandatory.
This profile does not have high and low T individuals. Females and males can exhibit color differences, but will always behave as their biological sex.
♀️ Females have more uniform and duller colors, without bright flashes of color on their face and neck. They greet others with a bowed head. (⤵️ emote)
♂️ Males have bright flashes of color on their face and neck. They greet others with a raised head. (⤴️ emote)
Torvosaurus are required to follow behavioral greetings.
For example, you may not be a male Torvosaurus and attempt to 'trick' others by using the other gender emote.
 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Torvosaurus young, known as cubs, are bold and energetic. Cubs can move and navigate their surroundings soon after hatching, where they begin to explore anything and everything.
They are noisy young, and spend much of their time squabbling with siblings, picking up random objects, and biting at anything that moves.
Playfighting begins practically as soon as cubs hatch. This behavior requires frequent intervention from adults at first, as cubs lack the understanding of boundaries and when to stop - sometimes resulting in an accidental fatality if the adult caregivers are not quick enough to intervene.
With repeated corrections, cubs quickly learn to limit their playfighting to safer levels, avoiding excessive harm (stopping before 50% Health). Female cubs tend to grasp this rule more quickly, while males often require more frequent reminders to adhere to the boundaries.
Torvosaurus cubs exhibit relentless curiosity, frequently venturing beyond the immediate safety of the nest. Their boldness can attract unwanted attention from predators, requiring vigilant protection (and rounding up!) by the adult caregivers in the group.
Female offspring form strong bonds with their sisters and other female cubs. This behavior can be observed from early on, where biting and squabbling gradually phases out to affectionate gestures and coordination with one another. They begin to band together to confront small threats - ranging from critters to unusual objects - showcasing their developing teamwork and communication skills.
Males remain quite independent from other cubs and notoriously nippy. They are often the loudest and most confrontational in the nest, constantly brawling and pushing other cubs around. They enjoy tussling with their father, and hassle all other cubs within the pack to play fight at all times of day.
Despite their boldness, males are also highly attached to the adult females in the group, particularly their mother. The females indulge the young males’ clingy nature with tenderness, though this dependence gradually diminishes as the males near adolescence. In contrast, female cubs show a greater tendency toward independence from adults from a younger age.
A nest comprised of only male offspring may be especially loud, causing the adult females to feel quite strained under the pressure of providing for such demanding young.
Female siblings strengthen their bonds through cooperative play, including mock hunts that mimic real predation strategies. These mock hunts may involve ambushing their brothers, testing their reaction times, or "capturing" inanimate objects as prey. Male siblings often respond to these games with defiance, defending themselves loudly or attempting to dominate the play, reinforcing their independent streak.
Cubs quickly learn the body language adults give off and when to fall in line - even males. When adult females begin crouching and staring in a particular direction - signifying they may hunt soon - cubs of all ages and genders mimic this action and quieten down their play, excited at the prospect of a potential meal.
As the females move off to hunt, cubs instinctively head towards their father, who guides them to a hiding place. They huddle close together, with males nipping at each other and females watching quietly, and wait for further instruction. Their father standing guard over them is a sense of protection for female cubs who purr and cuddle against him and each other, but can prove irresistible to male cubs who frequently get scolded for their mouthy behavior - especially when they nip at their father's legs or tail at such serious moments!
Once they reach adolescence, the behavioral dimorphism between Torvosaurus widens, with females working together and attempting to hunt independently, targeting small creatures such as those from burrows or scavengers. Males are much more lazy in this respect, and tend to come over to their sisters and steal their kills, or simply wait for food to be provided for them. Males are much more likely to loudly complain when hungry - or scavenge at best - whereas females prefer to find a meal for themselves.
Adolescent males become quite prone to wandering at this age, and frequently have to be rounded up by the adults - usually the father - to prevent them from straying too far from the rest of the pack.
Males continue to squabble and roughhouse with each other, but gradually stop playfighting with their sisters at adolescence. They take instead to challenging their own father more frequently - especially if they lack brothers - which can sometimes result in an angry outburst if their father is not in the mood.
By maturity at Sub-Adult, male offspring become too much of a challenge to their father's authority to remain, and are aggressively driven out by him. At this stage, these sons have grown to be wildly independent, and leave alone or in pairs with another brother, keen to find their own way in the world.  Their leaving can draw out some sadness in mothers, but is more often than not a relief, due to their demanding natures.
Females are allowed to remain, and sometimes take turns filling a hunting place with one of the other adult females to allow them to rest. Their presence is only tolerated temporarily, however - as once the adult females desire to nest again, or these females have the opportunity to find a male of their own, they get driven out of the pack by the adult females.
Females rarely leave alone and usually take sisters with them to form their own sisterhood until they can secure a male. In exceptional cases, sometimes a mother may leave with up to 2 of her daughters, provoking a deep sense of sadness in the adult male of the pack. Mothers leaving with daughters is very rare, as they usually prefer to remain with the other adult females of the group, whom they have normally forged very strong bonds with.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Female orphaned Torvosaurus are much better equipped at surviving than their male counterparts. They quickly learn to remain in the shadows and use dense overgrowth for concealment, reducing the likelihood of encounters with predators. This quiet and cautious behavior contrasts sharply with others raised in a stable environment, making them adept at avoiding danger. Female orphans readily adapt to challenges and pick up hunting quickly.
Males, unfortunately, rarely survive. Without a mother or other females to provide food and no one to teach them how to hunt, male orphans spend most of their time trying to seek out other Torvosaurus, loudly crying for attention and food. Lacking the guidance of a parent or the cooperation of a group, these males struggle to hunt effectively and instead rely on scavenging or attempting to intimidate smaller dinosaurs into surrendering their kills. 
Sometimes they can mistake Daspletosaurus and even Tyrannosaurus for other Torvosaurus and end up becoming an easy meal for these other, larger theropods.
Orphaned offspring may be adopted by other Torvosaurus, but only by sisterhoods. If a male is present, he aggressively chases away (or even kills) unrelated offspring, so solitary females or groups of bonded females are the only potential salvation for orphans.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 01.09.2025 23:27
Bild
Torvosaurus are a cathemeral species, but hunt exclusively during the day. They spend most of the day and night lounging around and taking naps, enjoying a slower pace of life.
This is especially noticeable after a pack has just eaten their fill - with members nuzzling against each other to enjoy a satiated nap.
These carnivores can be found in many different biomes across Gondwa - but are most commonly seen in a plains or arid environment, basking in whatever snippet of sunshine they can find.
Torvosaurus typically prefer the Dry Season for its hotter temperatures, and love rolling and shaking around in dust baths and warm sands. The Rainy Season can prompt more grumpy behavior in Torvosaurus - particularly when raining or snowing, as they do not like the cold.
Torvosaurus are sedentary, meaning they prefer to stay in one POI for the majority of their time, and do not travel often like nomadic species. Additionally, they lack any territoriality towards other carnivores or herbivores - permitting them in their line of sight as potential future hunting opportunities.
The one exception are other Torvosaurus packs, detailed under Aggression Interaction.
When Torvosaurus do travel to a new POI, they prefer to do so during the night.
Lone males or male-only coalitions, however, are nomadic, traveling frequently in search of food opportunities, and the potential to form packs of their own with females.
Torvosaurus have strong behavioral dimorphism. Males greet others with a raised head (⤴️ emote), while females greet others with a bowed head (⤵️ emote). They each have largely different roles and behaviors in a group, detailed in Social Interaction.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Torvosaurus primarily rest at night, typically finding deep foliage or dens to construct temporary nests in to sleep, especially when cubs are present.
Females will typically take over the care of offspring at this time, permitting the male a break. He will often go on walks through the territory, patrolling to ensure no males enter as well as to have time to himself.
At night, Torvosaurus reserve their energy, focusing on being ready for the next day. Often, females will lay close together, cleaning one another and softly purring at each other.
 
Bild
Females - especially sisters - bond deeply and closely with one another, either in a sisterhood or a pack. They begin a tight knit and close bond often from cubhood, and frequently disperse from their natal packs together with their sisters.
They show deep affection to each other, with nuzzling and grooming commonplace, as well as resting close to one another during downtimes.
Males, on the whole, are largely stoic. They may form loose bonds with their brothers or even other lone males they temporarily group with, but this relationship dissipates as soon as the potential of females occurs - with brothers turning against each other in order to secure females for themselves.
Males that are in a pack with females show great affection and care towards them, happy to pass by and offer them affection during their patrols, and joining in with cuddle piles at rest times. Females respond to this enthusiastically, calling affectionately to him and leaning in to groom him.
Males are also fiercely protective of their females and cubs, and are the first ones to leap to their defence when danger is spotted.
Females sometimes engage in playful sparring with one another at rest times. This sparring is always consensual between a pair, and never goes below half health. They carefully lay beside each other afterwards, grooming and chuffing to solidify their bonds.
Males never playfight with other males in this way when in a coalition. In addition, they do not show any hint of aggression towards their females - and so do not engage in play fights with them.
In the event a male is ever aggressive towards his females, this behavior provokes an immediate and vicious response from all adult females in the pack. Such an act could even cause the females to rebel against him entirely, and cast him out in favor of a new male.
Torvosaurus communicate with each other in a variety of ways, but usually through chuffing. The amount of chuffs issued signifies the importance of the call, with multiple chuffs in quick succession usually indicating that they wish for others to follow them - especially when issued towards offspring.
Males are always summoned by females after a successful kill with :broadcast_call: loud broadcasts. No females will begin to eat until the male has started - and should the male take too long to arrive, a female will leave the corpse in order to collect him.
Only after the male begins eating will females join him. Cubs are not permitted to feast on the corpse until all adults have eaten - but some mothers take pity on their cubs and tear off a chunk of flesh to deposit for their young, tiding them over until the adults are full.
✦ Males forming a coalition
This type of grouping is only made when a solitary male finds another, or when two brothers disperse from their natal pack.
This is the only time males will tolerate another male in their vicinity. Solo males will group loosely with other solo males in order to better maximise their chances of scavenging and finding kills, but these alliances are only ever temporary.
Even brothers will part from each other when the prospect of females becomes available.
Coalitions usually end up with a natural hierarchy - with one male asserting dominance over the other, leading to the more submissive of the pair having to wait for his turn to eat when kills are made or claimed, and deferring to the dominant male's authority. 
This tends to form organically, influenced by the individual personalities of each male. Unfortunately, coalitions composed of two highly aggressive and dominant males often dissolve quickly, with neither male willing to yield or compromise.
These groupings are nomadic.
✦ Sisterhoods
Females naturally form a sisterhood when they disperse from their natal packs, preferring to stick together with their sisters and half sisters where possible.
Even unrelated females may form sisterhoods as they travel, keen to forge female friendships and bonds with others.
Females have nothing to prove to one another, and forming a sisterhood together is usually a peaceful and simple process - providing they have room to accommodate each other.
Though bonds will be shallow at first, females invest a lot of time on grooming and hunting together to deepen their connection to one another. They actively engage in social interactions, finding comfort and companionship in each other's presence.
✦ Males meeting a female or female(s)
Males greet all Torvosaurus with a raised head and low growls, and are always delighted when a greeting is returned with the bowed head of a female.
The female(s) begin by circling the male slowly, sniffing and inspecting him while he stands firm, lifting his head and exposing his throat to them. They carefully evaluate his size, scars and posture - signs of his capability as a protector and future mate.
If they are impressed with the male, each female will settle down beside him, chuffing softly to push him on to the next challenge.
Unimpressed females instead stay very firmly stood, and begin a series of aggressive roars and hissing, aimed directly at the male's face.
Males may attempt to stay for a bit longer to try and convince the females, but ultimately this only worsens the mood of the females, forcing him to retreat lest they attack him to prove their point.
With impressed females, the male must then move off to secure a critter for each female. This gift is a critical part of the ritual, symbolizing his willingness to push himself for the group by engaging in a series of small hunts. Failure to deliver these offerings prompts the females to lose interest, leaving him behind and ending the courtship attempt.
Once each female has been presented with their gift, the final test is initiated. The male must hold both his ground and his head high as the females escalate their evaluation of him. They once again circle him, but this time deliver a series of firm and deliberate bites to him: testing his strength, resolve, and willingness to endure discomfort for the sake of the group.
This is never fatal, and males that retaliate with aggression to the females - or worse, try to flee - provokes an immediate and unified response from the females. They launch an immediate hunt on the male, killing him on the spot regardless of time of day or hunger requirements.
Once he has proven himself, all members of the newly formed pack call affectionately to each other and shake, settling down together. Grooming and soft chuffing solidify their bond, marking the beginning of a harmonious pack.
✦ Coalitions or multiple ungrouped males meeting females
Lone females or sisterhoods discovered by multiple males - whether in coalitions or ungrouped - provoke immediate and intense competition among the males.
Even brothers or those with slightly stronger bonds find themselves driven to aggression when the potential of securing females arises, and coalitions quickly un-group to prepare for battle.
Unwithstand bites from females or present them with critter gifts. Instead, they impress females by driving out rival males.
Females observe silently as males engage in tense standoffs, sizing each other up and launching into vicious and brutal fights. These clashes are not only to secure rights to the females, but also serve as performative - proving to the females in the area that the victor is the strongest. These battles last until one opponent either dies or forfeits (should one forfeit, they must be allowed to flee), leaving the victor free to attempt to claim the females. 
When more than 2 males are present, the conflict escalates into a series of battles, with winners having to fight other winners. Each confrontation narrows the field until a single dominant male emerges victorious, claiming the right to court the females and form a pack. These fights may only be 1v1 at any point, but multiple battles may occur at the same time.
In rare scenarios, such as where 2 bonded males in a coalition encounter a sisterhood with more than 1 female, the less dominant male may be permitted to try and court one of the females to form his own pack. This only occurs at the mercy of the more dominant male, who chooses not to drive his subordinate away after besting him in battle - especially if the male submits and forfeits before a battle starts. 
Instead, the ultimate winner opts to isolate the female(s) he desires and move off with them, leaving one behind for his subordinate to claim. While this divides the sisterhood, it provides a more balanced distribution of females and ensures the coalition remains somewhat intact, even if they do not group together again.
However, this all hinges on the preference of the females. If the subordinate male is allowed to remain in the POI after all other males are driven out, the females may choose him over the dominant male.
While most females prefer the ultimate winner due to his demonstrated strength and dominance, this dynamic poses a risk for the victor - especially when sisterhoods are unwilling to separate. Thus, all females may align with the subordinate male, ultimately undermining the dominant male's efforts despite his victories - illustrating that granting this mercy can lead to a substantial loss for the winner.
Should the winning male not wish to gift the obsolete male any females to form a pack with, or should the females not wish to go with the loser, the two especially bonded brothers exchange a final :friendly_call:  call to one another—a stark farewell that acknowledges their bond forged in their shared childhood.
✦ Females joining an established pack
After a female has been successfully wooed by a male, she must next be approached by the other female(s) in the pack - who likely have been observing the interactions silently from afar.
The new female must show submission to the other females - approaching them in a crouched position, with head bowed in a show of gentleness and acceptance.
The existing females will stand over the newcomer, sniffing the air around her and calling over her as they inspect her.
This inspection is brief, and all parties relax the tension by shaking off afterwards, accepting the new female into the group and allowing her to participate in hunts and group grooming activities.
Very rarely, females may reject the new addition. In these instances, the females will launch an aggressive attack towards her - one that won't stop until the male intervenes and breaks up the fight.
The male may have to make a decision in these circumstances. If the females show no sign of being able to settle, he will have to drive the new female away - or opt to leave with her himself.
✦ Solitary Torvosaurus
Solitary males have a lot to prove, and spend the majority of their time patrolling on the search for females to create a pack. They avoid Large and Apex tier carnivores, and prefer to utilise their strength in bullying Medium tier and below off of their kills, leaving hunting only ever as a last resort. Scavenging or contesting for bodies is the preferred choice for these males, who lack much success when forced into hunting prey.
Solitary females are far more self-sufficient than their male counterparts, and are usually successful at hunting and bringing down smaller prey in order to keep themselves fed. 
Although solo females are able to utilise their hunting skills efficiently whilst solo, they thrive on company and are prone to loneliness, becoming increasingly lethargic over time should they not find other Torvosaurus. Being far better equipped for survival than males, they move tactfully and quietly, keeping well-hidden until they find some form of company in other Torvosaurus.
Solitary individuals of both genders avoid deep rivers or large lakes to drink or travel through. Torvosaurus are acutely aware of the possibility of becoming a meal for a larger crocodilian species.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Melanistic:
Melanistic females are treated no differently from others. However, melanistic males, lacking the typical bright coloration, may not always be accepted by females. Their success depends heavily on the preferences of the females they encounter.
Albino:
Albino individuals are consistently targeted and cannibalized on sight by other Torvosaurus, with no tolerance shown toward them.
Bild
Established packs rarely have aggression among them beyond typical playfights - but there is a stark difference between consensual fighting and active aggressive behavior.
Coalitions have the highest chance of group-related aggression, with the dominant of the pair opting to push his weight around by forcing the other male to wait until he has eaten before he can take his fill, and pushing him around as they patrol.
Males almost never show aggression to the females in their pack. Doing so is deadly - females will never tolerate aggression towards them and will unify in response to any of their bonded females meeting hostility from their male. The group bands together and responds with violence - launching a series of attacks and vicious bites until he is forced to submit. In extreme cases, they may go even further, and drive him out of the POI and away from them entirely, rejecting him and dissolving their group.
✦ Driving Out Rival Torvosaurus
If Apatosaurus, Argentinosaurus or Ampelosaurus are in the POI, Torvosaurus will not drive out other Torvosaurus.
Solitary males or coalitions remain nomadic and do not engage with other males unless attempting to take over a pack or claim females. They prefer to just move on.
Only packs or sisterhoods that are full (no space for more females) actively drive out other females from the POI. This behavior ensures that resources and space remain dedicated to their established group.
Males are always driven out by packs with a male, but this is handled differently, see Pack Takeovers.
Full packs or sisterhoods always drive out other packs or sisterhoods.
Torvosaurus in these circumstances cannot co-exist with the other Torvosaurus in the same POI. If unwilling to hunt or drive out the rivals, they must leave the POI.
1 male and 3 females may work together to battle the rivals.
Torvosaurus can either opt to hunt or kill these rivals - so long as one group is forced out of the POI. If on a timer with Torvosaurus, they must permit the other group to flee the POI, rather than hunt them outright.
This behavior towards other Torvosaurus can be exhibited at any time of day - including hunting.
✦ Pack Takeovers
Solitary males or coalitions may happen upon a pack that is already formed, and wish to challenge the male for the right to his females.
Coalitions must dissolve before a takeover challenge can start, with the more submissive of the pair opting to willingly submit to allow the dominant male the chance to fight. This submission preserves the chance that the subordinate may later secure a female if the challenge is successful. Regardless of the number of females in the pack, only 1 male may issue the challenge at a time.
The challenge begins with the rival male approaching the pack's male, signaling his intent with his head held high and a bold stance. The pack's male, seeing this, will approach him also with his head raised, matching his stance with an equally confident one of his own.
The posturing escalates into :threaten_call: aggressively calling at each other, before finally a fight ensues.
The battle is brutal and fierce - and one that can result in death if either male is particularly insistent on winning. The fight continues until a male either succumbs to his injuries or forfeits - leaving the winner the right to the females.
If the original male wins, the challenger (and his subordinate, if he watched) will be driven out of the POI.
Should the newcomer win the pack, a number of changes occur:
The original male is driven out of the POI if he is still alive.
If the victorious male has a subordinate, and the pack includes multiple females, the new male seeks to select a female for his subordinate. A female may volunteer herself forward for the position, but otherwise is nudged in the direction of the waiting male. 
If no females consent to this, the subordinate male is driven out of the POI by the entire pack - alone.
Afterwards, the male is subject to inspections by his new females. They circle him and inspect as they would any other male, but do not subject him to the biting or critter gifting in order to impress them - as he bested the original male, he is already proven.
Females may or may not accept him at first - a position which is largely dependent on differing personalities, and whether or not they have cubs present.
Females with cubs present will never accept the new male until her cubs are grown or gone. Harmony in the pack cannot be achieved until all females have accepted the male - so sadly, males that takeover a pack must work quickly to either drive out or kill cubs in the pack.
Adolescent female cubs are spared from this, permitted to stay as potential future breeding partners.
Mothers may or may not opt to defend her cubs from this attack. Other females do not assist the mother in this task, and males must always back down if the female bests him - biding his time until her back is turned to try again. Some females, however, opt to turn a blind eye - especially if they have particularly demanding cubs.
Regardless of their protective instincts, all females must leave their cubs unattended at times to hunt, creating openings for the male to act.
New males are not killed by females, and males always back down when the female starts attacking. However, they may attempt to cull the cubs at a later time.
If the pack has adult daughters present, the new male must make a choice of which females to drive out of the pack. This can either be the mothers or the adult daughters. Only a maximum of 3 adult  females may remain in the new pack.
Bild
Torvosaurus have little tolerance or social interactions with other species of dinosaurs. Other species are seen as a threat - or potential food source.
✦ Thalassodromeus
However - one exception is for Thalassodromeus. These pterosaurs are tolerated for their scouting ability. Thalassodromeus can form bonds with particular Torvosaurus packs or groups, and will be permitted to scavenge from all Torvosaurus kills.
In exchange, Thalassodromeus will alert Torvosaurus to the presence of others in the area, helping their bonded Torvosaurus to maintain their territory borders. 
Thalassodromeus do not alert Torvosaurus to potential prey - only rival Torvosaurus. Doing so may spook prey and ruin a hunt for Torvosaurus.
Torvosaurus that forge these bonds with Thalassodromeus will no longer hunt them, and will permit them to come quite close to them at rest times. They may aggress unknown Thalassodromeus, but will show considerable tolerance for those that prove themselves useful.
Torvosaurus only allows Thalassodromeus to scavenge and all other scavengers are chased away.
 
Bild
Only 3 female Torvosaurus hunt within the pack.
Solo males and coalitions will only hunt as a last resort, and prefer to scavenge or contest for bodies.
If a pack has less than 3 females, the male may step in to fill out the hunting party temporarily. As soon as a third female is found, he will no longer participate in hunts. This includes mobbing situations.
Torvosaurus must first make sure they have driven out other Torvosaurus from the POI (if applicable) before they can hunt other species, or they must hunt them first.
Amargasaurus is the priority target for all Torvosaurus for hunts and must be targeted first, after Torvosaurus.  If there are no Amargasaurus or mobbing opportunities, Torvosaurus must next target ceratopsians. If no ceratopsians are available, Torvosaurus may target whatever it prefers.
Prey tends to be stalked for a short while before a hunt begins. One member of the hunting party may be responsible for flushing prey towards other members, which remain concealed.
Hunts are very coordinated between members. They take it in turns to go in and attack their target, all from different angles, to maximise terror and confusion for their prey.
Once a kill is made, females will broadcast loudly to call the male over - who will (usually) have played no part in the hunt whatsoever. If the male does not come in a timely manner to eat his fill, one of the females will go to find him and bring him back to the kill.
The females and the male eat first, with offspring being allowed to eat only after the adults are full. Mothers may take pity on her offspring, and take a chunk off of the kill to give to them before resuming eating.
Mobbing:
If Apatosaurus or Argentinosaurus are in the POI, other Torvosaurus groups will be permitted into the POI to aid the original group in a mob hunt.
In this hunt, up to 6 Torvosaurus may participate in a hunt against one of these sauropods. This must be done in separate groups, but they may work together to bring it down.
If a pack has enough females in it already to begin a mob, they can do so without forming an alliance with another pack.
If successful, they will share the kill together. Afterwards, one group must be driven out by the other.
 
Bild
✦ Courtship
Females typically come into season all at the same time - a biological strategy that works out well for them, as they prefer to raise young together, and often pool offspring into one general 'creche'.
When a female is ready to court, they begin hounding the male in the pack relentlessly. They follow him around, growling and huffing, shaking at him, and laying down beside and in front of him.
Some males can be particularly dim when it comes to recognizing these signs in his females - and may result in the female getting annoyed at his lack of attention and nipping at his tail.
If a male fails to court females when they are in season, repeatedly ignores their advances, or nestings consistently result in infertile eggs, he runs the risk of being driven out by all females in the pack.
If he accepts their advances, he will settle down beside them and shake, affectionately calling :friendly_call: to them and signalling his readiness to assist in parenthood.
✦ Nesting
Bonded females happily share nesting sites - opting to place their nests close together to better pool their offspring. Females that are new to the pack may have to place their nest a little further away until they bond more, but all females nest within a similar vicinity to one another.
Males assist females in nest building by ferrying them resources to construct them, and spends time patrolling around the borders of the nesting grounds to drive away any threats to the future young.
✦ Parenthood
Once eggs hatch, all females participate in raising them - even those that do not have cubs of their own. Cubs are lavished with affection and nuzzling from a young age.
Male cubs are tenderly indulged by all adult females in the group. They are usually fed first by adults, and babied for far longer than their female counterparts. Males are sharply corrected if they attempt to hunt, with adults preferring to kill the prey for them and present them with the corpse.
Female cubs are encouraged towards independence from a young age - carefully guided towards critters and even small prey - and praised as they bring back kills.
Adult females never tolerate playfighting from cubs and always intervene. They allow them to tussle amongst themselves - after correcting them when they go too far - but will not engage in these fights with them themselves - a privilege they reserve only for other adult females in their group. 
This is in stark contrast to the father of the group, who happily endures his offspring's roughhousing.
Adults utilise a number of different calls and body language to communicate with their cubs in urgent situations. Crouching and staring in the direction of prey without sound is a clear indicator to cubs to gather near their father, who will usher them to a safe place to hide while the females go out to hunt.
The father always acts as this form of 'babysitter' when females go out to hunt, standing guard as a stoic presence as cubs play and target him, nipping at his legs and tails. Though he enjoys this play, he is careful to quiet them if they get too raucous, mindful not to alert any potential prey.
Adults frequently have to round up cubs that wander too far, especially as males age and become more restless. Fathers - who usually patrol the POI for most of the time - are the ones most responsible for keeping cubs in line like this, often returning them to their mothers.
✦ Offspring Maturity
As they mature into Sub-Adult, fathers turn their attention to their sons, who by now are too much of a threat to his authority to remain. He aggressively sends them out of the POI and the pack itself. Mothers - who seem to have a strong soft spot for their sons - can sometimes be seen in a low mood after their sons leave, whilst others might even show signs of relief.
Up to 3 daughters are allowed to remain in the pack at Sub-Adult, but their doing so prevents the entire pack from breeding. When the pack decides they wish to court again, it is the adult females that will drive these daughters out. Otherwise, they often leave on their own accord if they catch the scent of an unfamiliar male - especially if they wish to form a pack of their own.
Fathers tend to bond the most with their daughters, and can be observed grieving for a short period when they are forced to leave the pack.
✦ Adoption
Only female groupings of one to three individuals are allowed to adopt.
Bild
As Torvosaurus age, they begin to experience a natural decline in physical prowess. Their hunting ability and stamina in general diminishes, making securing prey increasingly difficult.
Nesting becomes less and less frequent as they approach Elder age. Decreased hormones lowers the fertility of both males and females, and their interest in raising young diminishes.
This can prove difficult if a male reaches Elder status but still has very active and virile females - a feat that may result in him being driven out by those females.
Elder males become especially vulnerable to a pack takeover from a much younger, stronger male. Often, these males choose to willingly forfeit and wander away.
In such circumstances, if a female has been with a male for a long time, and they have successfully raised 5 clutches of offspring together or more, the female may leave the POI with him.
✦ Death
The death of a closely bonded member is mourned by all members of the pack.
Bild
If daughters opt to stay once they reach Sub-Adult, a post must be logged in the ⁠🩸・bloodline-logs, linking to the nesting post and detailing relationships.
Torvosaurus may only hunt during the day, but can hunt outside of their hunting schedule if the target is albino, on deathscars, or hatchling/juvenile.
You must use the bot command /rolleggs Torvosaurus in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to determine the eggs your female lays before making your nesting post. You must link this roll inside of the nesting post. 
Bild
Torvosaurus have mandatory greetings: females greet others with ⤵️ emote and males greet others with ⤴️ emote.
In a full pack only females are permitted to hunt.
Torvosaurus only tolerate other packs in their territory if they wish to mob a sauropod that is not Amargasaurus.
Torvosaurus have a special relationship with Thalassodromeus (look under Cross-Species Interaction for more detail).
Packs with space for another female may tolerate rival females to encourage recruitment.
Males without a full pack of females can challenge other males without a full pack for their female(s). They challenge the male only. Females do not intervene in this, on either side.
Male torvosaurus will always cannibalize orphan young, and may commit infanticide should he successfully takeover a pack with young offspring under adolescent. 4.8.1, 8.4.1
Full sisterhoods or packs may hunt rival Torvosaurus if they have no available room. 8.4
Rival torvosaurus may be hunted or challenged out at any time of day. 1.4
Torvosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 21:30
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 03:30
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Torvosaurus are Large Cathemeral Terrestrial Carnivores.
Torvosaurus only hunt during the day.
Torvosaurus have 3 different grouping types. In a pack, this comprises 1 Sub/Adult Male and up to 3 Sub/Adult females with unlimited offspring. 
This group can sometimes have 3 additional Sub/Adult females in the form of nested daughters - these can only stay if a bloodlines post has been logged for them, and the entire pack are unable to nest until they disperse.
They can also form a coalition of up to 2 Sub/Adult males, or a sisterhood of up to 3 Sub/Adult females, with unlimited offspring and adopteees. Only sisterhoods adopt.
Torvosaurus are aggressive.
Torvosaurus can have up to 4 in an engagement. Torvosaurus can have up to 3 in a hunting party - which must be all female. 
Torvosaurus males can only hunt if they are solo or in a coalition, and there is no opportunity to contest for a body or scavenge from a spawned AI corpse.
Torvosaurus males can step in to the hunting party if there are not 3 females available to hunt in the pack.
Multiple Torvosaurus groups may gather in one POI if Ampelosaurus, Apatosaurus or Argentinosaurus are present. Up to 6 Torvosaurus may work together to hunt and kill these sauropods and share the corpse afterwards. This is only a temporary alliance, and must be separately grouped.
Torvosaurus may hunt up to Any tier (but Large when solo). Torvosaurus may not scavenge.
Torvosaurus have strong behavioral dimorphism, where the females are primarily responsible for hunting and providing food, and the male serves to protect the pack and drive off rival males from pack takeovers.
Male Torvosaurus greet other Torvosaurus with a raised head (⤴️ emote), female Torvosaurus greet each other with a lowered head (⤵️ emote).
They are highly territorial towards other Torvosaurus, often engaging in intense rivalries to secure mates or defend their space.
Torvosaurus tolerate and even share kills with Thalassodromeus - bonding with particular individuals and allowing them close. These pterosaurs help Torvosaurus by alerting them of rival Torvosaurus in the POI.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-40-50-70 = 180 total
Combat Weight: 4500
Adjusted Stats:
⁨
- Armor increased to 1.3 from 1
- Health recovery rate increased
- Stamina sprint cost per second reduced
⁩ 
Profile in Under 60 Seconds - Video Series
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0v1ddy0guGE
YouTube
Dynasty Realism
Dynasty Realism: Profiles In Under 60 Seconds - Torvosaurus
Bild
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?