Barsboldia
Barsboldia was a large, herbivorous hadrosaur that lived during the Late Cretaceous period, around 70 million years ago, in what is now Mongolia. Known for its long, flat snout and possible crest, Barsboldia likely fed on a variety of plant materials. It was a member of the duck-billed dinosaurs, and like others in its group, it may have traveled in herds for protection from predators.

⁨⁨
Author: Red with contributions from Kittyful
Photo: Byuul
⁩⁩

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 08.07.2025 21:24
Overview
 
Bild
Apex Cathemeral Terrestrial Herbivore
Barsboldia form harem bonds.
Barsboldia are territorial around nests and food sources, but otherwise nomadic.
Barsboldia have a tolerant nature, but an aggressive nature when nesting.
Barsboldia may group with Bonapartenykus and Struthiomimus.
Barsboldia may not defend these species, even if grouped with them.
Barsboldia tolerate albino and melanistic individuals. Albino individuals are unable to court or nest, due to limited fertility, and are treated like babies by their mothers even into adulthood. Some non-related Barsboldia may shun albino individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Barsboldia include:
Albino, Melanistic, DR Piebald
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 10 Sub/Adults of any gender, led by a lead male or elder female
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a herd.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Predator Reaction: Aggressive/Defensive
2 Barsboldia may enter an engagement or challenge for food and water resources.
If hunted by Tyrannosaurus, and there are no offspring or adoptees of Adolescent or below present, the group flees, and the attacked Barsboldia receives no defenders.
Other Barsboldia in the herd step away from the engagement, not wishing to receive accidental damage from standing too close. They are allowed to watch, but must maintain distance, and do not assist the other Barsboldia.
At nesting sites, Barsboldia protect a space 5 body lengths around their calves and nests. Ungrouped creatures that get within this space are given one aggressive call :threaten_call:, before being chased out by a maximum of 2 Barsboldia.
A mother defending her nesting site or offspring does not count to engagement limits. However, she must make an effort to move away from the engagement with her offspring when possible and toward the security of the herd, with the two defenders taking her place.
Mothers defend a space of 2 body lengths around each calf or adoptee under Sub-Adult.


Preferred Diet
Barsboldia eat fruit and berries exclusively in their younger years.
As they age, Barsboldia are encouraged by their mothers to move onto tougher foods, such as roots, pinecones and other vegetation.
Sub-Adult & Older Barsboldia require Salt Rocks at regular intervals. They travel vast distances to consume them. 
Barsboldia that do not eat Salt Rocks regularly become afflicted with hyponatremia. See more under General Behavior.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 1 🥚﻿ per 4 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 3 🥚﻿ per 4 hours.
Barsboldia nest in open grounds with plenty of visibility. Their nests are made of rocks and mud.

Physical Dimorphism
♀️ Females, known as cows, are stockier.
Suitable female subspecies include: Gibbosi
♂️ Males, known as bulls, have a more pronounced back hump or spikes.
Suitable male subspecies include: Dorsum, Sicinskii.
Physical dimorphism for Barsboldia is not mandatory, but those who do not conform to the species dimorphism receive no interest during courtship.
 
Bild
Offspring Behavior
Barsboldia offspring, known as calves, hatch blind in the warm cradle of a tightly compacted nest, with their mother resting close beside them. They instinctively wiggle towards her for comfort.
Until their eyes open and their legs gain enough strength, Barsboldia calves remain quiet and peacefully snuggled up to their mother. This lasts until the last bar of the hatchling period.
If left alone, calves cry out in distress, ignoring other adults until their mother returns. Luckily for their mother, this extreme separation anxiety disappears by Juvenile, though they remain clingy.
The herd is ready to move on to continue their migrations when calves reach Juvenile. Calves stay closest to their mothers and siblings, and showcase shy and nervous behavior with any other Barsboldia that approaches.
Juvenile Barsboldia take some time to warm up to the rest of the herd, and are hesitant to play typical games during migration, especially without their mother present. 
However, the presence of Struthiomimus - who love to play with baby Barsboldia - begins to warm them to the idea, and soon even the most timid calf can be coaxed into play.
Barsboldia calves only eat fruit and berries until midway through Juvenile. Towards the end of this stage, mothers encourage calves to try new foods. Some calves can be particularly stubborn and refuse these new food sources initially, requiring more coaxing to get them to comply.
Calves are skittish and nervous at first, requiring constant reassurance from their mothers and other adults in the herd when exposed to new experiences - especially those involving other species of dinosaur, coming across corpses, or sudden dramatic weather changes.
Calves cry out in alarm at these novel experiences, and continue to do so until given a reassuring nuzzle by an adult.
Female calves spend most of their time bonding with their mothers and sisters, learning to forage effectively and find reliable sources of food for themselves and potential future offspring.
Male calves show a great deal of interest in their fathers as they age, who often greet them with affectionate calls. Adult males begin to show calves how to bugle as they near adolescence. Baby bull broadcasts delight a herd of Barsboldia, and prompt many affectionate calls in response.
Male calves proudly attempt to perform mock bugles to impress other calves, which often provokes a chorus of young bulls calling out their own song in return.
The most important relationship to a calf is the bond it shares with its mother. In every moment they try to please her, quickly learning when corrected on different behaviors, and take care to bring her small gifts to receive her affection. A calf may even run up to her simply for a nuzzle upon seeing her, even as they grow through adolescence and towards sub-adult.
At Adolescent, calves begin to show confidence within social interactions, and show interest in greeting and getting to know other members of the herd.
Often attended by their siblings, they begin to form the relationships that they need to succeed in courting when they reach adulthood. Most Barsboldia herds are built on generational relationships and connections, and families prefer to stick together.
As calves reach the end of their adolescence, their mothers seem to grow even more affectionate with them. Calves quite enjoy this attention and they spend a good time snuggled up with their mother, even as they reach adulthood.
At Sub Adult, Barsboldia begin requiring Salt Rocks like their adult counterparts. They require no guidance in locating these and instinctively consume them, driven by natural fluctuations in their mineral requirements.
Once they reach Sub Adult, calves assess where they wish to remain. Barsboldia herds tolerate no more than 10 Sub/Adult Barsboldia at a time, due to pressure for resources and a high consumption of resources per individual. 
Should there be room for them to remain, cows are the most likely to want to stick with their mothers and siblings, and prefer to stay within the group wherever possible. Bulls, in general, develop more wanderlust, and desire to venture further in hopes of meeting new, unrelated individuals that they could form harems with.
If bulls willingly choose to disperse, they always opt to go with a brother or close friend if possible. If a sister is especially bonded to him - or even a mother, especially when the bull has been raised as an only calf - she might leave to travel with him.
If either sex has to disperse, they always leave with at least one closely bonded individual - usually a family member.
Despite dispersing, Barsboldia frequently revisit their old herds and sometimes reintegrate if there is adequate room for them. They build lifelong friendships and relationships over the years, and their strong memories help them remember individuals.
Orphaned Behavior
Orphaned Barsboldia are blind when they are born, incessantly calling for the presence of a mother that will never come to them. As they begin to realize that no one is there to warm them, they go quiet, and wait for their legs to gain the strength they need.
Many calves perish due to cold, particularly in the Rainy Season. Orphan calves fair better in the Dry Season thanks to the warmer temperatures.
Orphaned calves are even more skittish than their nested counterparts, and take a significant amount of time to warm up to new experiences and individuals they encounter.
The earlier they manage to find others of their species - or other suitable herbivore surrogates - the earlier they grow out of their skittishness. Orphans who do not meet any other Barsboldia - or at least a friendly herbivore face - as they grow up can retain some of this nervousness into adulthood.
Without a mother to guide them to try other foods, orphaned Barsboldia take longer to try other food sources, with extreme cases resulting in adults stubbornly sticking to berries and fruit only.
Without parents, orphaned Barsboldia will search for any similarly-shaped herbivores (such as Iguanodon, Tenontosaurus, Parasaurolophus, Lambeosaurus) to follow along with for comfort. However, they may only group with their own kind, Struthiomimus and Bonapartenykus.
In adulthood, orphaned Barsboldia may initially struggle with courting. While females who were orphaned are more difficult to impress and get close enough to for a bull to court, a bull who was orphaned often does not know how to bugle his first courting season - so may opt to join a different group as a subordinate bull or be courted by another, more experienced bull instead.
Bild
Barsboldia require a high level of salt in their diet once they reach Sub-Adult. To better maintain an electrolyte balance, and aid them in water retention (which is crucial to the more arid environments they inhabit), Barsboldia are frequently migrating in search of Salt Rocks.
Barsboldia have an incredible sense of smell, and are capable of tracking down the location of salty environments over long distances. They can be frequently seen pausing and sniffing the air to detect different scents.
Barsboldia are a cathemeral species with a high appetite, requiring them to continuously graze in order to stay satiated. Finding enough food can prove difficult - particularly in the Dry Season - but Adult Barsboldia have adapted to eat and consume a wide range of vegetation.
In the terrible midday heat of the Dry Season, Barsboldia can be spotted standing closely together, pressing their bodies side by side to avoid excess heat from the environment. This is due to Barsboldia having lower body temperatures than the atmospheric temperature during the scorching heat of Dry Season.
Barsboldia do not go out of their way to remain in massive herds like Iguanodon and Parasaurolophus, and maintain small, close-knit family groupings over making connections with new, unrelated Barsboldia. This helps them prioritize resources for themselves, their closest friends, and family members.
Barsboldia are constantly chewing. This behavior comforts them and keeps them fed, so particularly stressed Barsboldia often immediately rush to find something to graze on, filling their bellies and giving them something to chew on for the next few hours. When food is limited, Barsboldia opt to chew on branches instead.
Barsboldia absolutely love rain, and take it as a great opportunity to cool off. They lay in rain puddles and lift their faces to the rain, exposing their necks and chests to cool themselves off quicker.
Barsboldia, once fully mature, are a relatively calm species that do not spook easily. This is in stark contrast to their earlier years, but is something that builds over time as they age. Adults pay little attention to carnivores - including Apexes - until directly threatened by them, or if they have young.
However, they do not tolerate carnivores entering their personal space and slam their tail into the ground to showcase this displeasure. Ultimately, if given appropriate space, Barsboldia remains tolerant.
There is one exception to this - adult Tyrannosaurus - see Predator Reaction.
Barsboldia are a highly parental and nurturing species. The bond between mother and calf is strong - and even bulls have strong protective instincts towards young.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Barsboldia sleep for short periods, with individuals taking it in turns to nap to ensure that at least one Barsboldia keeps watch. Bulls notoriously take the longest naps - sometimes prompting a nudge from an impatient cow when wanting to move the herd on.
Barsboldia often rest in shade or in water, but prefer clean water to dirty water. They shake often in the water, at times using the mud at the bottom of the shallow pools to cool their legs and underbellies.
 
Solitary Barsboldia
Lone Barsboldia are very capable of surviving alone, but do eventually end up craving companionship.
This craving can be satisfied with at least one companion - something which can be achieved by having a friendly Struthiomimus or Bonapartenykus to migrate alongside them, if no other Barsboldia can be found.
﻿
Albino & Melanistic Barsboldia
Albino Barsboldia are more sensitive to heat and sunlight than their non-Albino counterparts. From their youth, they are spoiled and doted on upon by their mothers, as they are weaker, slower, and more fragile.
Albino Barsboldia are more likely to become sunburned and suffer from heatstroke, move slower due to weak legs and limbs, and - more often than not - are born completely blind. Blind albino Barsboldia always have blue eyes and must be guided by a Barsboldia bonded to them.
Albino Barsboldia are skipped over during courting. This is due to limited fertility and their visible fragility.
Often, an albino Barsboldia's only luck with being accepted in a herd is remaining under the care of their mother, or grouped with their siblings, as they can be rejected from joining non-related groups. At times, mothers of albino Barsboldia opt to leave with their albino offspring when they reach Sub/Adult, preferring to stay by their side permanently until one of them dies.
Mothers of albino calves are extremely protective of them, to the point where they may panic if their albino calf goes out of their line of sight. This extended care continues even as the albino matures into adulthood.
Melanistic Barsboldia are treated like any other Barsboldia, and suffer no hardship with courting or nesting.
﻿
Hyponatremia
Barsboldia (of Sub-Adult and above) that do not consume salt rocks on a semi-regular basis become afflicted with hyponatremia. 
This behavior is a roleplay behavior, and is not a built in in-game mechanic.
This illness is low sodium in the blood, and presents with a slower gait, and frequent head shakes.
Barsboldia frequently feel nauseous and lose their appetite. Starvation - while extreme - can occur if the individual does not consume salt rocks to remove the affliction.
Their energy levels drop, and Barsboldia with this affliction take much longer nap periods.
When standing, they are plagued by bouts of dizziness, and are prone to stumbling into herdmates, objects, and even over their own feet.
In rare cases, Barsboldia will go blind - with their eyes turning blue - from prolonged instances of this condition.
The only cure is to consume salt rocks again to restabilize the sodium levels in their blood, slowly reversing the damage.
In Riparia, a lack of salt rocks may be substituted with one or more sips of salt water.
 
Bild
Barsboldia have a strong need for companionship, and form very close bonds with other Barsboldia. The strongest of these bonds tend to be with their family members, but deep and meaningful friendships also form between individuals that spend very large amounts of time together.
New friendships and bonds take time to warm up to one another. However, bonds can be formed between both same sex and opposite sexes, and are not exclusive  to individuals of the same sex.

Herds
Groupings remain fluid, with members changing at regular intervals when it suits.
All Barsboldia travel in single file (though calves travel side by side with their mothers), with one following after the other, starting with the leader.
Herds are lead by an elder cow, or, if one is unavailable, a lead bull, who is the eldest and most dominant bull of the group. Herds always prefer to follow elder cows if one is available - perhaps linking back to their innate and strong bonds with their mothers - but will defer to a bull instead if no such cows are in the herd.
Elder cows naturally assume the position at the front of the herd. Her position is never challenged, and is welcomed by the rest of the group. She holds a lot of respect among her herdmates.
If a herd is already led by a lead bull and an elder cow joins, the bull naturally steps aside, allowing the elder cow to walk in front of him and steer the direction of the group.
Without an elder cow or bull, Barsboldia will follow the most experienced individual.

Massive Migrations
At times, small breeding or familial groups of Barsboldia move together in mass migrations, with multiple separate herds moving side by side (while in separate groups in game). While most groups tend to keep to themselves, there may be some intermingling, especially between calves. These groups do not show any aggression to one another while migrating, but this can change during nesting and consuming resources.
These massive migrations may at times be led by groups of elder cows. Younger females in the group bring their calves to be shown to them, or otherwise may like to hover around the outside of this grouping, especially if a mother, aunt, or older sister is present.
Bild
Barsboldia travel in single file, with calves walking side by side with their mothers.
Photo by QueenBella
Bild
Barsboldia are not naturally aggressive toward one another in daily life, and prefer coexistence within their strong familial bonds. However, disputes do arise - particularly over resources, bull leadership, and mates.
Bulls are most commonly involved in aggressive interactions, especially when a herd lacks a clear leader or enters the nesting season. These challenges follow a structured set of behaviors, designed to test strength between males.

Leadership Challenges
Lead bulls only arise when there are no elder cows to take the helm. If a lead bull is present but an elder cow joins the herd, he willingly allows her to take the lead.
This position is either inherited by age and respect - an elder bull will almost always claim this, if present within the herd - or earned through competing in a leadership challenge.
Bulls that desire a leadership position must first signal their intent by approaching the current lead bull, and begin bugling :broadcast_call: directly at him. This loud, broadcasting noise can be quite deafening, and is a signature noise Barsboldia bulls are known for.
If no lead bull is present, but there are multiple potential bulls, a determined bull will select another bull to "challenge" for the right to lead the herd.
If the other bull accepts the challenge, he will respond by slamming his tail into the ground and aggressive calling :threaten_call: at the challenger. Both males then rise up onto their hind legs.
Bulls lunge at each other, utilizing fierce kicks with their front legs, shoving, and slamming their tails against each other.
The first bull to reach half health loses the challenge, making the other bull the new lead.

Cow Authority
Elder cows do not challenge one another for dominance. Their leadership is never contested, and younger Barsboldia automatically defer to them.
If there is more than one elder cow present in the group, one naturally gets accepted as the lead through mutual agreement from the rest of the group.

Disputes Over Resources
While generally tolerant, Barsboldia defend prime food resources, nesting locations, and Salt Rocks from other species and other herds of Barsboldia.
Barsboldia initially try to use their bodies to block access to the resource - or nesting site - with the majority of adults moving into a clump in an attempt to cut off the intruder from reaching the defended resource.
If the intruder does not take the hint - or starts a resource challenge - 2 Barsboldia step forward to defend, with the others stepping aside and bellowing in support of their herdmates.
Grouped Bonapartenykus and Struthiomimus are always permitted access to resources and nesting sites.
Bild
Barsboldia are tolerant with other species, providing their personal space is respected and resources are not contested.
The only species permitted close proximity to both their nests, calves and resources, are Bonapartenykus and Struthiomimus, both of which Barsboldia accept into the herd as their peaceful companions.
Unfamiliar species that threaten a Barsboldia's personal space are met with escalating warnings. At first, a sharp, guttural aggressive call :threaten_call: is issued, soon followed by a threatening tail slam if the species does not take the hint.
If the intrusion persists, Barsboldia swipe the offender away with their tail.

Nesting Sites
At nesting sites, only grouped Bonapartenykus and Struthiomimus are allowed within 5 body lengths of a placed nest. Any other species that ventures too close are driven away.
Up to 2 herd members - almost always bulls - start with issuing an aggressive call :threaten_call:, and break from the herd to chase the intruder away if this is ignored. These interactions are not intended to kill, but to create distance, and the bulls quickly return once the threat has moved away.
Cows remain near their nests, nestled against their eggs or young hatchlings, rarely engaging unless the threat is extreme.

Defending Calves
Barsboldia mothers defend their calves from all other species - except other Barsboldia, their grouped Bonapartenykus or Struthiomimus, or any adopted herbivore offspring - until they reach adolescent. They defend a space of 2 body lengths around their calves.
Any species that get too close are warned first with an aggressive call :threaten_call:, and may be attacked until they leave 2 body lengths of distance between themselves and the calf.

Struthiomimus
Struthiomimus are Barsboldia's closest allies. They tolerate these species to get very close and personal with their young, and value them as excellent sentry species.
Struthiomimus are often seen assisting  Barsboldia navigate through complicated rocky terrain, which the apex herbivore tends to struggle with.
Barsboldia form very close bonds with Struthiomimus or a group of Struthiomimus, and spend a long time mourning them if one of these treasured companions passes away.

Bonapartenykus
Bonapartenykus are also permitted to join the herd and get close to young, but Barsboldia do not connect with these species as closely as they do with Struthiomimus.
Bonapartenykus have a quiet and gentle nature, something which is appreciated by Barsboldia, who dislike excessively noisy species.

Other Species
When solitary, Barsboldia is prone to following herds of other herbivorous species - most often Parasaurolophus, Lambeosaurus and Iguanodon.

Other Species Adoption
Barsboldia mothers that suffer the loss of a calf enter a deep mourning period, which ultimately culminates in them attempting to adopt the next orphan under adolescent they encounter - regardless of species.
These adoptions are instinctual and emotional, and driven by the mother's grief and need to nurture. While survival for other species' adoptees can be difficult - especially if the offspring is a carnivorous species - mothers show no discrimination in their care, treating them exactly like Barsboldia calves.
Bulls may attempt to try and drive out these other species (especially carnivorous ones), but many allow the cows some time with the orphan, acknowledging the cow's need to mourn. 
By the time the orphan reaches Sub-Adult, if it has not already left of its own accord, the bull will chase it away, regardless of the adoptive mother's cries.
Bild
Predator Reaction: Aggressive/Defensive
Barsboldia are generally unbothered herbivores once they reach adulthood. Even apex carnivores do not provoke much of a reaction from these species, though they make sure to keep an eye on them at all times.
This changes dramatically when they are directly threatened - such as a hunt starting, or predators getting too close to calves (within 2 body lengths).
Barsboldia begin issuing deep warning calls, and slam their tails against the ground. If the predators do not respect the space, they may get charged by up to 2 adults until they retreat.
Mothers and bulls act as the primary defenders, but any member of the herd will move to defend a grouped calf. While 2 adults actively engage, the rest of the herd move to shield the other offspring from harm.
Should a predator approach a nesting site, with a cow actively resting on top of eggs or beside her hatchlings, bulls and non-nesting cows (up to a maximum of 2 adults) may charge to drive predators (and other species) away from the nesting site, ensuring they remain at least 5 body lengths away.
Once a predator forfeits, they are not pursued once they leave 5 body lengths away.
Mothers may defend her nesting site offspring and override engagement limits. However, she prioritizes having the two defenders take over, moving herself and her offspring away from predators.
Other Barsboldia in the herd step away from the engagement, not wishing to receive accidental damage from standing too close. They are allowed to watch, but must be 10 or more body lengths away, and do not assist the other Barsboldia.
When part of a mass migration, with multiple herds migrating together, Barsboldia does not call for help across herds. Each herd handles threats independently of one another.
Barsboldia may use cliffsides to its advantage in order to defend itself from a hunter, but does not run to a cliff when spotting a predator - they may only move towards one once an engagement has started. Barsboldia does not climb onto boulders and other higher terrain or hide in dens when being hunted.
Barsboldia may flee at any time if they wish during an engagement. If solo, Barsboldia may choose to start moving away when Apex carnivores are spotted. Particularly stubborn individuals may still engage if needed.
Barsboldia prefer to keep moving during hunts, using their great size to control space and intimidate predators. By abruptly charging at their hunters, they strive to cause momentary panic, swinging their tails down on those too slow to dart aside. They may chase for a short period if given the opportunity, but do not go out of their way to attack and kill forfeited individuals.
Calves keep pace with their protector's movements, using them as a shield against incoming attacks. Barsboldia adolescent and below do not chase nor charge, lacking the confidence and size to make an impact, but will follow an adult that chooses to do so.

Tyrannosaurus
One exception for Barsboldia is adult Tyrannosaurus. When these species attack - or are spotted before they can - Barsboldia opt to leave. Engagements are fled from, but Barsboldia may defend themselves as they seek to escape.
The only exception to this is when Barsboldia have calves or adoptees of Adolescent or below. Barsboldia may opt to defend as normal in these circumstances, with their strong parental instincts overriding their fear.
Without offspring/adoptees under Adolescent, Barsboldia receives no defenders from Tyrannosaurus.
With offspring/adoptees under Adolescent, up to 2 adults may defend, as in a normal engagement.
 
Bild
Barsboldia court within their own herd, and form harem-style bonds, where a single bull courts a small group of cows within the herd.
Bulls do not force cows into their harem. Instead, they must earn the favor of each cow individually - and usually each nesting season.

Beginning Courtship
Cows start the courtship process, signifying their receptiveness to courtship by repeatedly performing stretching motions in sight of a bull. Bulls that notice this repetitive stretching approach the cows, sniffing the air to pick up any differences in their scent.
Once it is clear that the cow is interested, bulls let out a distinctive bugle. This is a deep, far reaching broadcast :broadcast_call:  that signals their presence and intent.
As they start bugling, other bulls in the herd - and even the area, if multiple herds or individuals are present - eagerly move over, calling out with bugles of their own to start a chorus of song.
With multiple bulls bugling and competing for a cow's attention, disagreements can occur. Bulls seeking to be chosen start to walk deliberately in front of other bulls, attempting to block them from view of the cows.
This causes the blocked bull to become highly irritated, switching his bugles to low, aggressive grumbles - an attempt to warn off the intruder.
If the aggressive call is ignored, and the other bull does not move out of the way, the other bull thwacks his tail into the ground, prompting the beginning of a short and loud fight between the two bulls. These fights are quick, consist of much shoving, pushing, and hitting each other with their tails, until one is forced to submit at half health.
These fights can be a prime opportunity for more submissive bulls to garner attention from a cow. While other bulls are battling, quieter bulls may approach the cow and bugle towards her, hoping to draw her attention away from the fighting bulls.

A Cow's Choice
Ultimately, the decision on who a cow will nest with is down to the cow. Bulls must wait to be chosen, and even a successful fight against a rival can sometimes be overlooked if a cow has a particular preference.
Bulls that fail to impress are simply ignored. The cow will turn away from the bull, making it clear she has no interest.
Cows only choose a single bull to court, and may choose a different bull each time she nests if she wishes. Some cows grow very attached to their bulls and over time, form a strong bond, choosing him to father all of her clutches.
When a cow is suitably impressed, she approaches the bull and nuzzles against him, calling out affectionately. The bull then seals this by gifting a salt rock for the cow or leading her to a drink of salt water. The cow will follow him, staying nearby until courtship is over.
Bulls may continue bugling and attempting to impress cows until all interested females have chosen a bull. After this, the group moves to find suitable nesting grounds - but this can be in the same POI if it appears safe enough.
Nests are placed reasonably close together. Females courting the same bull always opt to have their nests beside one another, but females courting other bulls in the same herd prefer to make sure their nests are also in close proximity.
Having nesting sites close together aids bulls in protecting them, and makes the cows feel more secure.
 
Parenthood
Both bulls and cows may adopt orphaned Barsboldia, treating them as if they were their own.
Cows are very dedicated mothers, and lay on top of their nests until their eggs hatch.
At the beginning of their lives, Barsboldia calves are blind, fragile, and carefully tucked into the nest. As soon as they hatch, their mother leans in to nuzzle them, soothing them and drawing them towards her.
Barsboldia mothers remain in one place - directly beside the nest - until the calves' eyes open and they become ready to stand. Otherwise, they risk their calves nonstop making noise without her, potentially alerting predators and risking the safety of her entire clutch.
Bulls give the mothers distance at this time, patrolling the outskirts of the area and staying away from the calves. Mother Barsboldia with calves in their nest are known to be quite aggressive, flush with protective hormones that make them more reactive and violent.
As a result, Barsboldia bulls view their task as protecting the area as incredibly important, as failing this task can disappoint the female and therefore leave him losing out on nesting opportunities with her in the future.
If any individual other than grouped Barsboldia, Struthiomimus or Bonapartenykus approach the nest and get within 5 body lengths of it, all Barsboldia are permitted to give one aggressive call :threaten_call: as a warning before chasing the individual from the area. These engagements follow nesting challenge rules.
Mothers are highly defensive of their calves, and when migrating, protect a radius of 2 body lengths around their offspring under Adolescent. This applies to any adopted offspring - including other species adoptees - that they adopt as their own.
Bulls tend to be less involved than the cows, but will accept being approached, standing still and careful to allow the calves to play around him and to earn the mother’s favor. Over-excited bulls or bulls that play too rough risk being loudly chastised by protective mothers.
All members of the herd treat calves fondly, and are highly protective of them. This includes bulls - both the father, and any other adult bull in the group. Any herd member can move in defense of a calf, but nearly always the mother and father protect them first.
Mothers are always gentle with their calves, nuzzling and gently bellowing at them to express their affection. Calves tend to be frightened of every new experience and their mother is always the first to comfort and soothe them.
As calves get more independent, their mother becomes more relaxed, allowing them to come to her for comfort and protection rather than keeping them close.
Females will affectionately shoo their children off once they become sub-adult, encouraging them to go off and form their own social groups. Adult offspring may opt to stay close and form their own social groups close by their birth grouping, resulting in familial herds that roam the expanse of Gondwa for generations.
Should the offspring be Albino, mothers frequently prefer to stay with them for life, caring for them until one of them passes.

Death of a Calf
Should the worst occur, the entire herd calls out in sadness and grief at the loss of an offspring. This mournful song goes on for some time, but the most mournful song of all comes from the mother.
Mothers fall into very deep despair at the loss of a calf. They stop eating, and walk very slowly with their heads down, crying softly.
Herd members try their best to console the grieving female, but little can replace a lost calf.
Driven by pure maternal hormones, grieving Barsboldia mothers go on to adopt the next orphaned offspring under Adolescent they encounter. This does not have to be a Barsboldia, and can even be a carnivorous species.
This still occurs even when the mother has other young still alive.
This adoptee is treated just as lovingly as if it were a Barsboldia calf, and is fiercely defended by the mother.
Most of the herd overlook this intrusion but keep their distance, though some bulls - particularly the lead bull, if there is one present - will try to drive them out.
The entire herd will assist in driving out this adopted offspring once it reaches Sub-Adult. If the species is not a threat to Barsboldia, it may be permitted to trail behind the herd for a while, but herd members use their bodies to block access to its adoptive mother, breaking the unusual bond.
Mothers fight to defend this "calf" at first, but always relent, calling out with soft cries as she is separated from her adoptee. This process is always easier for the mother when the offspring is Sub-Adult, but herdmates soothe the female with affectionate nuzzles and calls, and she eventually overcomes the separation.

Barsboldia nesting ground. A male can be seen patrolling around the nest sites for threats.
Bild
Barsboldia bulls tend to deteriorate in age quicker than Barsboldia cows -  especially solitary bulls, who have no others to take care of them.
During the rainy season, females start to prefer grouping with their children or sisters when tolerated, or those that they have formed strong bonds with. They show less interest in nesting, and more interest in nurturing offspring of their sisters and family members.
At times, groups of elderly females may band together to lead multiple separate herds, helping new parents with their young and establishing migration paths. Barsboldia females prefer to lead their groups along rivers and water sources during the rainy season.
When a Barsboldia ages, saturated colors on their skin tend to desaturate.
Barsboldia will stay close to elderly members of their closely bonded groups, and will often times stay by their bodies when one passes, unless aggressed away by a predator. They nuzzle their fallen group member’s body lovingly and will cry sadly to it. When the body disappears they will depart, mournfully bugling up to the sky as they move again.
Bild
Notes
Barsboldia of Sub-Adult and above have a high requirement to consume Salt Rocks at regular intervals.
Those that do not become afflicted with hyponatremia.
In Riparia, a lack of salt rocks may be substituted with one or more sips of salt water.
Barsboldia mothers adopt the first orphan under adolescent they find only after their biological calf dies. This is a form of reverse imprinting, and the mother treats this offspring as if it were her calf.
They do not join the in game group.

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-60-75-85 = 240
Combat Weight: 5500
Adjusted Stats: - Health increased to 1500 from 950
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 22:52
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
✦ Riparia Differences
This map is a temporary map, and will be updated soon!
Profile - Quick View
Barsboldia are Apex Cathemeral Terrestrial Herbivores.
Barsboldia can group up to 10 sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees. These are small, family orientated groups, known as a herd.
Barsboldia are tolerant, but aggressive when nesting.
Barsboldia can have up to 2 in an engagement.
Barsboldia are largely unbothered by carnivores, and show little reaction unless they are being hunted, threatened, or the carnivore is near their young calf/nest.
Barsboldia is a primarily arid dwelling species that has adapted to their nomadic, desert roaming lifestyle.
They eat a wide range of foods and have high appetites.  They have kidneys well adapted to processing salt, and require Salt Rocks at regular intervals to keep their sodium levels optimal. This assists them to go without water over long periods, particularly as water is difficult to find in some of the locations they inhabit.
Barsboldia are incredibly parental and show great love and affection to young within their herd. All herd members are protective of calves, and seem to enjoy their company.
Barsboldia mothers take this to the extreme. At the death of her own biological calf - even if she still has other calves - the mother will reverse imprint on the first orphan they encounter, treating it as if it is a Barsboldia calf.
Barsoldia are well adapted to the heat. In the Dry Season during the midday heat, Barsboldia in herds stand very closely side by side each other, aiming to avoid the atmospheric temperature.
Profile in Under 60 Seconds - Video Series
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fScaXfGewzU
YouTube
Dynasty Realism
Dynasty Realism: Profiles In Under 60 Seconds - Barsboldia
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 31.01.2026 16:43
Bild
Table of Contents
Details
Offspring Behavior
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Predator Reaction
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Profile Notes
Quick View

Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?