Eotriceratops
    "Eo", "Eotrike," “Trike”
Eotriceratops is a social and migratory species, led by a female individual called the matriarch. With powerful memories and memorized migration paths, Eotriceratops females prioritize their matriarchies and the offspring within their herds. Eotriceratops males patrol their herds fiercely, erupting into aggressive battles for dominance with one another and against any predators or herbivores that threaten their herd and its resources. A male's innate aggression can, at times, even be turned towards their own offspring.

⁨⁨
Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Red
Includes ideas from: NorthernEmperor
Photo: Daisydayys
Profile inspired by Asian Elephants, Hippopotamus, Zebras, Wild Horses, Musk Oxen, and creative liberty.
⁩⁩

Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 29.08.2025 19:36
Overview
Bild
Apex Diurnal Terrestrial Herbivore
Eotriceratops form harem bonds.
Eotriceratops are nomadic. When in a herd, Eotriceratops males are territorial of the herd and 5 Eotriceratops bodylengths around the herd.
Eotriceratops females are tolerant in nature, while Eotriceratops males are aggressive.
Eotriceratops matriarchies and herds may group with Psittacosaurus. 
Eotriceratops females may defend grouped Psittacosaurus. Males aggress Psittacosaurus away if they attempt to use them as a meatshield.
Eotriceratops tolerate mutated individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Eotriceratops include:
Albino, Melanistic, DR Leucistic Mutation, DR Piebald Mutation, Vita Pied Minor, Vita Pied Major, Vita Gyandromorph
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Matriarchy
12 Sub/Adult Females, led by a dominant female known as the matriarch.
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

Bull Group
Up to 6 Sub/Adult Males (2 if closely bonded)
No offspring or adoptees

Herd
Up to 14 Sub/Adults, comprising a maximum of 2 males and a maximum of 12 females
This group is lead by a female known as the matriarch.
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees
This group only forms once a matriarchy and up to 2 males have courted and raised offspring to Juvenile.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Bull Predator Reaction: ⁨Headstrong⁩
Cow Predator Reaction: ⁨Defensive⁩
Up to 2 Eotriceratops may take part in an engagement.
Eotriceratops ignore hatchling and juvenile, tiny, and small tier carnivores, and less than 3 Medium tier carnivores.
Only active defenders may charge attackers during an engagement, this may be bulls or cows.
Bulls may only start engagements via charging if a predator continues to get closer to its group and ignores its aggressive calls. Cows do not start engagements with charges, but may charge once an engagement has begun if they are one of the two defenders.
Eotriceratops not acting as active defenders do not have to move 10 bodylengths from the engagement.
Bulls will only ignore a forfeit from a predator if it is on deathscars.
A bull may charge and actively chase anything that is on deathscars; however, he will not chase a predator out of LOS of a herd he has claimed or the rest of his bullgroup, and may never chase a predator out of the POI.

Matriarchy Defenders
The matriarch always acts as the main defender. The next most dominant female acts as the second defender.

Bull Group Defenders
Within a Bull Group, closely bonded males defend one another. Otherwise, the main defenders are the most dominant males.

 Herd Defenders
If a solitary male is in a herd, he and the matriarch become the main defenders.
If 2 males are present in a herd, they become the main defenders.
If a solitary bull has successfully courted a matriarchy, but is not yet grouped and is hunted, the matriarch may defend him.

Defending Offspring below Sub-Adult
If offspring under Sub-Adult is being hunted, the mother (adopted or biological) may always defend it, but will flee with the calf to safety once other defenders arrive to take her place.
Males never defend young. Offspring under Sub-Adult are pushed away with headbutts or towards females, if the offspring attempts to use the male as a meatshield.
 
Preferred Diet
Berries, roots, flowers, fruit, nuts.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 5 🥚﻿
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿
Eotriceratops may nest again when all offspring are sub-adult, dead, or none are present in game.
Eotriceratops nest in communal locations depending on season. Their nests are constructed out of reeds, branches, and roots.
In the Rainy Season, Eotriceratops travel to Broken Tooth Canyon, Rainbow Hills, or Tallbrush Coasts to nest.
In the Dry Season, Eotriceratops travel to Green Valley, Rockfall Hill, or Hollow Hills to nest.

Physical Dimorphism
Eotriceratops has mandatory behavioral dimorphism between sexes. See more under General and Social Interaction.
Eotriceratops allows high testosterone and low testosterone individuals; however, they must abide by the behaviors tied to their biological sex. For example, cows will not be outwardly aggressive to calves, and bulls will not be affectionate towards calves, regardless of testosterone levels. Cows must remain defensive, and bulls must remain headstrong.
♀️ Females, known as cows, have duller and less contrasting frills, and tend to be more uniform in color across their entire body.
♂️ Males, known as bulls, have brighter and more colorful frills and bodies, at times with more intense patterning.
Physical dimorphism for Eotriceratops is mandatory.
Albino, leucistic, gynandromorph, and melanistic bulls are viewed as low testosterone, and may form bull groups, but will not be selected for courtship, and may not group with cows.
Albino, leucistic, and gynandromorph and melanistic cows are not treated any differently from other cows, but albino, leucistic, and gynandromorph individuals are never selected by bulls for courtship. Bulls may court melanistic cows depending on their own preferences.
 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Eotriceratops babies, known as calves, are born in interconnected nests in Broken Tooth Canyon and Rainbow Hills during the rainy season, and Green Valley and Rockfall Hills during the dry season.  They hatch quickly, using little headbutts to break out of their shells and tumble into the world.
Calves hatch fragile and weak, surrounded by the sounds of their siblings, aunts, sisters, and cousins from other matriarchies. All new babies are examined with gentle nuzzles by the adult females in the group while they rest to recover from hatching.
Once Eotriceratops calves have recovered, they hop up onto their feet. This is when they become properly acquainted with their mother, who will become the best friend for the rest of their life if female, and who they will eventually have to leave if a bull.
As they grow further into the hatchling stages, they quickly learn to walk, run, and trot alongside their mothers and throughout the matriarchy, doing so happily.
Matriarchies allow intermingling of calves and females, so mothers may take their calves to meet up with friends, sisters and mothers that are in other matriarchies. Calves are often seen playing together, picking up items, running, and charging around together.
Calves being hurt send any female nearby (within 3 bodylengths) into alert. Up to 2 females, whether or not their mother, bellow as they rush over in defense of the calf. Nuzzles and soft affectionate calls are quick to comfort it if accidental, but otherwise any calf can be fiercely defended by any female present.
Calves will always flee to females first when predators are around, knowing that bulls will not protect them from threats. 
Bulls are not present in the rearing of offspring whatsoever, and more often than not, offspring are driven away if they approach a bull, or quickly gathered by the matriarch or their mothers.
Matriarchies stay at the nesting grounds until all calves have reached Juvenile.
The matriarch gathers all offspring in a clump and presents them before her to the bull in order for him to investigate them and recognize them. These initial bonds and inspections are vital to ensure that the bulls do not mis-recognize the calf and end up killing it when it strays too far from its mother. 
Bull calves are most likely to act out, showing off their frills and mock headbutting in the direction of the bull. Cow calves are less likely to do so, affectionately calling and curiously inspecting their father.
Solitary bulls who meet their offspring often look for another bull - preferably a more submissive one -  that they can pair and bond with, in order to better defend themselves and their herds.
In the case that Eotriceratops do get to meet their father, they stay very close to the matriarch, watching as he approaches and inspects them. Their behavior during this stage strongly influences whether or not the bull reacts with aggression and refuses to tolerate the offspring.
Following the bull’s acceptance, the herd forms, and the entire group begins to migrate across Gondwa again. If two migrating matriarchies leave at the same time, they go opposite directions, not wanting to incidentally share resources with the other.
Juvenile calves by this stage have steadily increased in confidence, forming tight bonds with their mothers, other adult Eotriceratops within their group, and their siblings.
Calves happily play with one another along migration routes: chasing, calling happily, and performing ‘charging’ contests - where calves line up and fiercely charge into rocks, trees, and stumps to determine who is the strongest. Calves also love to jump, kick their feet, and chase one another.
Bull calves are more boisterous than their female counterparts, showing a lack of fear and curiously approaching anything they are unfamiliar with in order to investigate. More often than not, their method of investigation is headbutting repeatedly, to see if the thing (or other dinosaur) will buckle or flee from their strength.
Female calves, however, are much more timid, preferring the proximity of their mother or another adult female in the matriarchy rather than rushing out to meet anything. They enjoy picking up items and carrying them around as a source of comfort, and can be seen picking up these items even into adulthood.
As they age into adolescence, bulls begin to show a bit more real aggression. They begin practising bull fights with brothers and half brothers in the matriarchy, and fiercely protect their sisters from perceived threats and otherwise. Any aggression shown towards any cows in the matriarchy is very quickly corrected by the matriarch – and repeated aggression may result in a bull being driven from the herd prematurely.
Adolescent bulls also seek out attention from and approach their fathers, who are now permitted around offspring. While initial exploratory reactions may be tense; as young bulls develop, fathers teach their sons to bullfight - carefully observed by the mother and matriarch. Sons are also taught proper patrolling behavior, and how to defer to the matriarch. 
If the father is not interested in taking part in parenthood whatsoever - or is otherwise absent - sons learn these behaviors from the matriarch instead.
Adolescent bulls begin to form small dominance hierarchies amongst themselves at this time, through sparring and posturing. Adolescent bulls also begin to travel slightly separately from the herd, with the most dominant of the group following closely behind their father, with the others budging and shoving one another behind him.
Adolescent females engage in mutual grooming, and learn the signals and behaviors necessary for survival. They additionally tend to copy or mirror the behaviors of the females around them, especially adult females or the matriarch, whom they love and respect dearly.
At times, if younger calves are present in the herd, adolescent females will take part in allomothering - learning to protect and care for other calves in the herd. They tend to them gently and even help bring the calves food, and use their bodies to shelter them in the middle of an engagement.
Sub-Adult Eotriceratops are inspected by the matriarch as they reach adulthood. She considers each calf closely in order to determine if they will stay within her matriarchy, or if they must leave in order to find their own groupings.
If a female calf is selected to stay with the matriarchy, she will affectionately call and shake her frill. The cow then has the option to join with the rest of the matriarchy if she would like to stay – otherwise, she returns the affectionate call but then turns her back, moving on and away from the others.
If a female calf is not selected to stay with the matriarchy, or the calf is a bull, the matriarch will broadcast with the rest of the matriarchy echoing her call. This is treated as a final goodbye, and with a final bellow to their birth group, the calf turns their back and moves on.
Male calves are immediately sent to disperse, and typically form bull groups - small social groups of males who continue to develop their bullfighting skills and establish strong bonds that help them in courting and impressing other females as they get older. At times, their father may opt to go with them, as fathers disperse at the same time as offspring.
These departures never escalate into a full conflict, and bonds remain between females even if separated, resulting in them affectionately greeting one another when the cycles repeat at the communal nesting grounds.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned Eotriceratops born in Broken Tooth Canyon, Rainbow Hills, Rockfall Hill or Green Valley have a very strong likelihood of survival.
All matriarchies will take in any orphaned Eotriceratops, and will fiercely defend any calves nearby them.
Herds will only adopt orphaned calves if a female in the herd has recently lost a calf, due to predators or due to one of the bulls in the herd lashing out. It is vital that this grieving female or the matriarch sees the calf first, as it must be quickly ushered to the protection of other females before the bull sees it and kills it.
Bulls will kill any unrelated Eotriceratops offspring they see on sight.
However, calves born outside of these areas face a lot of risks, even from their own species. Adult bulls will attempt to kill any offspring they do not recognize, or those that are not attended by an adult female.
Orphaned Eotriceratops proceed through many similar milestones to their nested counterparts, but display different behaviors as a result of their solitary upbringing.
Female Eotriceratops tend to be more timid and private, preferring matriarchies of exclusively individuals that they have formed extremely close bonds with – these relationships being their daughters and granddaughters.
Male Eotriceratops who grew up solitary tend to have been socialized improperly, resulting in them struggling in social situations with other Eotriceratops, particularly other bulls. They also generally display more aggression – which can even, at times, be taken out on females that intrude on a male’s space. However, they do benefit from older bulls bringing them into bull groups.
This over aggression is quickly corrected by other females in the herd, is never fatal, and results in complete rejection by that matriarchy.
Bild
Eotriceratops have distinct behavioral dimorphism between sexes. While females tend to be more gentle giants - so long as their calves are not threatened! - bulls are an aggressive, powerful, and unwavering presence in Gondwa.
Matriarchies have organized social structures, while bulls form groups as either strong duo bonds, or as loose, competitive bachelor groups.
Eotriceratops have incredibly strong memories of each other and of locations. Matriarchies will often seek out the same bull or bulls, especially if he has proven himself a worthy protector, father, and caretaker.
Eotriceratops matriarchies are almost always on the move, other than when being courted by a bull, nesting, or sleeping. Led by a matriarch who determines migration paths and determines who remains as a member of the group, they are incredibly bonded, and slightly exclusionary of outsiders.
Matriarchs are incredibly important individuals within Eotriceratops social structures, and lead many behaviors – such as migrating, the introduction of calves to a bull, selection of a bull, and determining which females join a matriarchy. This is detailed in Social Behavior.
Eotriceratops bulls sometimes form strong bonds with one other bull, typically when they have fought many battles together and won, and whom fiercely protect their territories. With a constant balance of deferring to one another’s dominance, and working together to impress females, Eotriceratops bulls, while being some of the most aggressive herbivores in Gondwa’s ecosystem, are capable of wieldling extremely powerful bonds with each other.
When a bull forms a strong bond with another, they no longer tolerate other bulls to group with them.
Most bull groups are simply groups of bulls who travel together to grow more experience with Gondwa, practice bullfighting, and defend one another. These groups are typically a band of brothers or a father and his sons, but also may be a group of unrelated bulls. These are only very loosely bonded groups, and spend a lot of their time challenging one another and playing as they make their way to the courting ground.
Eotriceratops herds are temporary groupings of a matriarchy and their chosen bull or bulls. Only deeply bonded bull pairs may take over a matriarchy together, if the dominant bull is selected by the female. Bulls will only group with females when offspring are present, and are between Juvenile and Sub-Adult in age. Bulls are highly territorial with their herds, and 5 bodylengths surrounding the herd. 
Herds travel with the matriarch at the front and calves in the middle of a wall of females, who work together to keep predators and the bulls away from their calves.
In the Rainy Season, bulls flush with additional testosterone, making them more unpredictable, and willing to go further during bullfights. Due to this, a higher number of male calves are born in clutches laid in the Rainy Season. In the Dry Season, more female calves are born on average.
✦ Downtime Behavior
When the herd rests at night, bulls patrol. Each bull is only active for about 15 minutes of the night; split down the middle if there are two bulls, or spread across the entire night in short chunks if the only bull. Otherwise, Psittacosaurus may take a bull's spot in "patrolling"!
Females sleep curled around offspring and each other, with the matriarch choosing the best and most comfortable place to do this. Some cows may stay up slightly longer to keep an eye on calves if they are being active.
Courtship and migrating does not take place at night. Bulls do not challenge other bulls for their herds at night, and instead prefer to only challenge during the day, when it is safer to do so.
 
Bild
All Eotriceratops determine what social group suits them the best. Some bulls prefer solitary lives, refusing to have competition in courting cows – while some bulls tolerate or even enjoy the presence of another in order to take part in that competition. Matriarchs are always able to determine whether or not they want one or two bulls to join their herd, and which females and offspring are permitted to travel with her.
Eotriceratops social dynamics are complicated – but at the core of it all is the matriarch. She determines who she groups with, which bulls are impressive, and disrupts any conflicts between members within the group. She is extremely important to the success of a matriarchy or herd, and her death can result in a herd utterly dissolving – especially if there are no other heirs to take her place.
Eotriceratops very rarely, if ever, form strong bonds between sexes, and tend to form the strongest bonds with other cows or bulls over the course of their lifetime.
✦ The Matriarch
The matriarch has many responsibilities and is essential to the success of a matriarch and a grander herd. While she leads migrations and determines her own herd’s migration paths, and steps up to defend when no bulls are present, she is also responsible for the social health of the herd, and the success of other cows. This role is not suitable for all females – but once achieved by a female, is not challenged for by any other female in the group.
The only time a matriarch changes is when the previous matriarch passes, leaving her inheritor to take her role. The matriarch is extremely particular with who her inheritor will be - it tends to be her eldest daughter whom she keeps very close to her in order to teach her how to be a matriarch. 
The inheritor may take over some matriarchal duties if the matriarch has determined she can, if the matriarch is needing help.
The matriarch determines who joins her matriarchy or herd, and also determines who leaves. This is done by circling and inspecting the prospective female, and is done with no aggression. If she accepts the female, she will issue a friendly call, and then go with her to bring her to the other females. If she does not accept, she will issue a loud broadcast call, and move on without the female.
Each matriarch is different, but generally matriarchs tend to prefer her own daughters and sisters, adoptive or otherwise, and have lower preferences for unrelated albino and  melanistic cows.
Cows who follow the matriarchy after being rejected risk being aggressed away – so if not selected, a cow will typically migrate elsewhere, in order to find a different matriarchy to accept her.
In the same vein, a matriarch is responsible for choosing the bull or bulls her group will nest with. This is detailed more in Courtship & Parenthood.
A matriarch may choose to accept a solitary bull or a pair of bulls. If a solitary bull joins a herd, a second bull cannot join. Only previously established pairs can be the two bulls in a herd.
A matriarch will lead migrations even when bulls are present. She establishes a regular migration path, picks which nesting ground the matriarchy moves to, and is the first to place a nest where nests will be constructed, as detailed in Courtship and Parenthood.
The matriarch is a peacekeeper in many fashions – while conflicts between cows are rare, she will quickly run between the two and drive one of them off gently to ensure they both get space. Where baby fights go too far, she will intervene. If a bull attempts to charge or is too aggressive with one of her females or a calf, she will aggress him in return, and quickly drive him off if it goes too far.
The matriarch is a fierce guardian, and acts as the primary defender of the herd if no bulls are present. 
She also defends females and offspring from the bull, and will monitor him while he is with the herd to ensure he does not behave too aggressively towards any females, and that he does not successfully kill any offspring. This is detailed in Aggressive Behavior.
The matriarch will, after all offspring in a matriarchy at a nesting ground have reached juvenile, take the calves and present them to the bull. She will gently correct calves who are behaving badly with nudges in order to allow the bull to approach and investigate them, and will defend him by pushing him away with block if things go wrong. This is detailed further in Courtship and Parenthood.
Matriarchs are very present in the babyrearing, teaching new mothers how to parent, watching over offspring, and if a bull is unwilling or not present, teaching baby bulls bull behaviors.
✦ Cows
Female Eotriceratops form incredibly strong bonds with one another, particularly with their mothers and the matriarch of the group, whether related to her or not. They bond with one another by sleeping alongside each other, gentle brushes against each other's sides, and frequent low, affectionate calls.
These bonds are lifelong, and females shunned from their original groupings or having lost them grow lost and at times even skittish, seeking the comfort of another Eotriceratops as quickly as possible in order to fill the void.
When reunited with individuals they have been separated from, they happily broadcast to one another, shaking their frills and briefly locking horns in brief greeting ceremonies.
Cows take part in a behavior called allomothering – where all females in a herd or matriarchy work together to tend to offspring. This is another way that females build bonds – by providing for one another's calves, they establish a strong and healthy support system and a strong foundation for calves to fall back on.
Older cows take a particularly strong role in herds, continuing to teach other adult cows and supporting the matriarch. These older cows tend to become "inheritors," who will rally and reunite a matriarchy post a matriarch passing away.
If a cow within a matriarchy or herd is sick or injured, other cows and the Matriarch slow down to allow them to keep up, even stopping more frequently to allow them to rest and heal.
When a group of cows encounters a bull naturally while travelling across Gondwa, they may greet him politely and shake their frills at him, but do not group up with him.
However - if the matriarchy has calves of Juvenile or below present, they will not greet him, and instead attempt to give him a wide berth in order to protect their calves.
✦ Bull Groups
Most bull groups are a small collection of loosely bonded bulls that train, spar, and play together. The two most dominant bulls lead the group on where to go and are the main defenders. These groups are constantly doing mock bull fights to practice - which never go below half health, even in the dry season.
These groups are most frequently bands of brothers, a father and his sons, or a group of bulls on their way to the courtship grounds.
Bulls in these groups take it in shifts to patrol at night, one at a time.
Sometimes, bull groups slim down to just 2 bulls, known as a bull pair.
Bull pairs are very strongly bonded bulls, with an established bond – either father and son, brothers, or unrelated bulls with one more dominant personality and one more submissive personality.
These bulls are very close, and will fight to the death for one another, and defend the other’s body if they fall, for up to one minute.
These bulls do not often hold grudges with one another, especially as they get older and more experienced. Some pairs may have established power dynamics – others may allow dominance to pass back and forth between bulls, allowing both bulls to continue to pair with matriarchies.
These bulls will rarely, if ever, split once bonded, and bulls that lose this bond will never bond with another bull in the same fashion again.
Bulls sometimes opt to follow matriarchy groups (with offspring or without) at a distance in order to encourage the matriarchy to migrate towards the courtship grounds.
✦ Bulls with herds
Bulls only group with matriarchies once they have been properly introduced to their own offspring. The matriarch presents the offspring to the bulls and allows them to investigate each one, establishing their scent and ensuring that the offspring is theirs.
Once satisfied, the matriarch allows them to join the group.
The matriarch is a strong component of a bull’s relationship with the matriarchy. She will approach him often to check in and show him affection. The bull himself will approach her at times and will often sleep close to her during rest stops in the day, trusting her to watch over him.
Bulls will also bring items they notice females are fond of to them in order to build stronger relationships with the herd.
Bulls are not present whatsoever with offspring when they are hatchling and Juvenile, but are permitted closer when the offspring are adolescent, and are a suitable size to interact with the fathers.
Bulls at this point are allowed to fully roam within and around the herd, and investigate offspring. Any aggression shown by them towards the offspring, however, is quickly stopped by the matriarch.
While the herd rests at night, bulls will patrol, and will sleep in shifts if there is 2 of them. This typically means that each bull will sleep for about fifteen minutes each night. If there is only one bull, he will sleep on and off, typically remaining seated in a position where he can watch over the entire herd.
Only bonded bull pairs will claim a herd together; solitary bulls will not have another bull join them and will not allow ungrouped bulls close to their herds. Matriarchs will also not permit bulls who do not group with the herd from the beginning to join the herd.
If a bull is bonded with another bull, and that bull joins late, he may not get within 5 bodylengths of the herd, and may not group, but may follow. The bulls will not protect each other during this time, and the ungrouped bull will not protect the herd.
If one of the bonded bulls dies while grouped with the herd, the living bull may still continue to remain with the herd and join engagements with the matriarch.
If the bull has sired no offspring in the herd, he may opt to abandon the herd instead.
 
✦ Solitary Behavior
Solitary female Eotriceratops often look for other matriarchies to become a part of, or seek to form their own matriarchies. Still as gentle as any other female, solitary cows can still approach and be courted by bulls in the same way full matriarchies can.
Solitary female Eotriceratops still migrate regularly, and often have tiny Psittacosaurus as companions, rather than their own species.
However, a lonely life tends to not suit females – some females may even attempt to be accepted into existing matriarchies at communal nesting grounds, as detailed in Social Behavior.
Solitary bulls, however, can thrive on their lonesome. While some bulls, especially as they age, seek support from another bull, younger bulls and those that prefer to have their own matriarchies learn the regular migration paths, and fiercely patrol and defend them from rival bulls.

✦ Mutated Individuals
Albino, leucistic, gynandromorph, and melanistic bulls are still treated as other bulls and may still group in bull groups, but are never successfully selected by a matriarchy for courtship. 
In the case that a mutated bull wins a bullfight against a typically patterned bull, either the other bull will be selected for courtship or neither will be, and the matriarchy will move on.
If a bull group is made up of two strongly bonded mutated bulls, the matriarchy will move on to find other, more suitable bulls.
Albino and leucistic bulls in bull groups are shunned and are not defended at night by other members of the group, and sleep separately (unless closely bonded with another bull). It is very rare for albino and leucistic bulls to form strong bonds with another.
Strongly bonded bull pairs containing an albino or leucistic bull will be forced to split if the typically patterned bull is selected for courtship.
Mutated cows struggle to be accepted by unrelated matriarchs, and are more likely to be tolerated within the matriarchy they were born into.
Albino cows cannot become matriarchs as they are seen as too weak, and become babied. Melanistic cows may become matriarchs.
Bulls never accept albino, leucistic, or gynandromorph cows for courtship, but may accept melanistics.
This results in mutated cows adopting any and all calves that they find, as well as helping to raise those of the other cows in the matriarchy. While in herds, they are unable to adopt, unless a mother in the herd has died and calves are in need of a mother.
Piebald individuals do not struggle with courtship or being accepted into a herd.
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 29.08.2025 19:43
Bild
Females rarely, if ever, show aggression to each other, only doing so if another female aggresses a calf. In these situations, the matriarch is quick to intervene, and it never escalates to more than loud calling and posturing.
✦ Shunning Behavior
If a matriarch begins to shun a female, she will quickly vacate her from the herd. This applies to bulls as well - a matriarch who does not like a bull’s behavior will quickly leave him behind, and move on as a matriarchy rather than a herd if his behavior is too much for the group to bear.
All members in a group trust the matriarch (or the dominant bull in bull groups) in their opinions of other members of the herd, and will base their responses to others on the response of the leading individual.
Matriarchies, herds, and bull groups form walls in order to push shunned members away from the rest of the group, following the lead of the matriarch or dominant bull to drive out individuals that are being shunned. 
Bulls do not take part in this in herds - but still avoid or aggress the shunned member if approached.
On the other hand, when in a bull group and shunning other bulls, males simply aggress and bull fight the other bull - even going so far as to kill him if his efforts to drive him out are ignored.
Bulls do not shun cows – instead of performing aggressive behaviors, he would leave the herd in order to find other, more suitable opportunities.
✦ Aggression Between Bulls
Bulls that have claimed herds will not tolerate other ungrouped bulls within LOS and will challenge them. A solitary bull in ownership of a herd will challenge other solitary bulls and bull pairs, but not bull groups with 3+ members. Bull pairs in ownership of a herd will challenge all bull groups in order to drive them out of the POI. 
This behavior is not exhibited at nesting grounds or the courtship ground. 
Any bull may always defend his claim over a herd, whether solitary or paired.
Bulls must ungroup to take part in bullfights, and all bullfights happen 1v1.
If a bull is challenged for his herd, he will bullfight to maintain the claim, in the same fashion he would at the courtship grounds. The matriarch watches the bullfight to determine a winner. If she is not satisfied with the reigning bull’s performance, and the herd has offspring of Juvenile or below present, she will reject all bulls and move on. 
However, if offspring are Adolescent or above, she may choose to accept the winning bull into the herd, replacing the current bull. 
This counts as courtship– and begins a migration towards the nearest nesting grounds, if not otherwise interrupted. Once offspring are sub-adult, the herd may immediately nest again.
Outside of this, bullfights are done for courtship purposes or to practice amongst bull groups.
✦ Infanticide
Bulls primarily attack ungrouped and unattended offspring - but, if a calf from his own group is not recognizable or continuously misbehaves despite correction, he will kill it.
If there are two bulls with a herd, only one bull may attempt to commit infanticide at one time. The other bull will not take part or defend the other bull from the matriarch or the rest of the herd.
These behaviors are pure instinct for a bull, and while he may gain more control over these instincts as he ages and gains more experience with females and calves, he never shows any paternal instinct, care or protection for a calf. The kindest thing he will do for a calf is shoo it back to their mother, assuming he recognizes it.
Any offspring outside of the territory of the herd risk being killed.
 
It is essential that a matriarch introduces a bull to his offspring properly – once this is done, he is less likely to commit infanticide.
If a bull chases a baby and it goes from unattended to attended (2 bodylengths from its mother), a good, experienced bull will stop - while a young, inexperienced bull won't. This results in harsh corrections from the matriarch or the mother herself in some cases.
Bulls have no timers in regards to killing calves, but will be driven out by the matriarchy if they successfully kill one or more calves within 30 seconds of each other.
If a bull attempts to kill a calf, the matriarch will charge him, using the block ability to drive him 5 bodylengths away from the herd. She growls fiercely and forces him to back off - even if the bull headbutts her in response, she valiantly continues to push him away.
All other females stay away unless the matriarch broadcasts to indicate she would like to shun the bull from the herd, rushing to circle around the herd all calves together and circle them. Females will not assist with driving the bull off from the calf, focused on defending the other calves in the herd, and trusting the matriarch to defend it.
If a calf dies, its biological mother stands over the body, calling loudly in her grief.
Once to the edge of the bull's territory, the matriarch stomps and aggresses him. 
A good bull - who will be eventually tolerated again - turns his back and walks away, shaking his frill, showing submission to the matriarch. 
A bad bull aggresses back - resulting in him becoming shunned by the entire matriarchy.
The matriarch will only exile him from the herd if he successfully kills a calf within LOS of any females in the herd. She does not do this for showing aggression towards calves.
If the bull has a pair, the other bull has a choice - either he opts to stay with the herd in order to earn their favor, or he goes along with his strong bond to seek other opportunities.
Bild
Eotriceratops matriarchies enjoy and respect the presence of Psittacosaurus, a small sentry species that happily scuttles about and plays with Eotriceratops calves. In exchange for a Psittacosaurus's protection at night, Eotriceratops cows allow them to utilize them as meatshields, hiding in with the other smaller and more fragile species in order to be defended.
If any species hunts a Psittacosaurus that is grouped with a matriarchy, as long as the hunt begins within LOS, 1 Eotriceratops cow may assist in defending the Psittacosaurus.
Bulls, when they are present, do not defend Psittacosaurus, and will aggress them away if they attempt to use them as a meatshield.
Bulls challenge any species around resources they are actively eating from, drinking from or sitting next to, excluding Argentinosaurus.
The bull must issue at least 3 aggressive calls :threaten_call: to the other species before charging.
If the species flees the resource, Eotriceratops bulls do not pursue them.
When in ownership of a herd, a bull aggresses all species that enter within 5 bodylengths of his herd, excluding Argentinosaurus. 
The bull may charge immediately once the other species enters the 5 bodylength radius around the herd. Bulls aggressively call :threaten_call: other species to warn them from approaching if they are spotted before entering the radius.
Eotriceratops cows do not show aggression towards other herbivore species except when nesting. They will not tolerate any species - besides Psittacosaurus - within two body lengths of their nests, and will fiercely charge and aggress these species away. 
Cows may do this immediately when the other species enters the 2 body length radius. If a cow spots these species before they get too close, she will aggressively call to warn them from approaching.
Once the other species leaves the protective radius around the nest, cows do not pursue.
This radius is extended to 10 body lengths for bull Eotriceratops.
Bild
When an engagement starts, 2 Eotriceratops can take part in defence. They charge forward to the front of the group in order to defend, while the rest of the group moves behind them.
Additionally, a mother may defend her calf at any time.
If not acting as a defender, the attacked Eotriceratops can retreat to the safety of the herd, effectively being swapped out in the engagement with one of the 2 defenders.
Once defenders are chosen, they cannot be changed.
Non-defenders being attacked may land a hit to defend themselves, but should retreat to behind the defenders where possible.
Eotriceratops ignore small tier and less than 3 Medium tier carnivores, except when nesting.  However, bulls within a herd will not tolerate any species within 5 body lengths of the herd.
Upon seeing a carnivore approaching, Eotriceratops begin to issue loud, trumpeting bellows. This alerts the rest of a group to do the same as they swiftly form a defensive position, shaking their frills and bellowing in the same manner.
If calves, the elderly, or previously injured are present, they will be pushed behind healthier targets.
The two main defenders rush in front of the group, shaking their frills, roaring, and stomping in order to show their intimidating strength, and hopefully deter the predator.
The defenders pace back and forth in front of the rest of the group, ready to charge and attack the aggressor once the engagement begins.
The rest of the group does not have to move 10 bodylengths from the engagement, but stay behind the defenders, using their bodies and frills as an intimidating wall to deter the predators.
If the active defenders move away from the circle, the defensive formation does not follow.
In the case that an individual in the defensive circle is desperate hunger or thirst, or does not want to remain in the defensive formation any longer, they may fear call and flee the engagement. They may not return within 10 bodylengths of the engagement, nor may they intentionally approach the active defenders or predators.
Should the time call for fleeing, the matriarch (or dominant bull) sounds the alarm, directing the most vulnerable to flee first, before the rest follows.
Eotriceratops cows prioritize the health and safety of their group above all else.
Bulls, however, can become enraged during a flush of testosterone, and do not flee until the very last second.
Bulls may only ignore forfeits from predators if they are on deathscars.
Should the carnivore hunting them enter deathscars, bulls seek to charge them down and finish them off. However, they never cross into different POIs in pursuit of the carnivore, and will not chase a predator beyond LOS of a herd he has claimed or the rest of his bull group.

Cows at communal nesting grounds:
While at the communal nesting grounds, matriarchies defend themselves separately and form separate defensive circles. These circles must be 10 body lengths away from the matriarchy or bull actively being hunted.
Any cow can defend any calf at any time as long as it is within 3 body lengths of her -and will rush the calf to the nearest defensive circle, even if it is not her own matriarchy or the calf's.
 
Bild
✦ Courtship
When a matriarch determines that her matriarchy would like the nest, and a bull or group of bulls determines that they would like to prove themselves, Eotriceratops in Gondwa travel to Mud Flats in the north, or Ripple Beach in the south. In Riparia, they will travel to Coastland Swamp - communal courting grounds for all Eotriceratops.
There, bulls will bullfight in front of matriarchs, and the most worthy become selected to father offspring and attend to a herd.
A pair of bulls select one of the sandy islands to fight, leaving the shore closer to trees and coverage for the females to watch from.
Only the matriarch initially enters the courting grounds, with the other cows resting and watching from a distance. The matriarch makes the selection for her entire matriarchy.
All matriarchs look for a well experienced and controlled bull, who will be the least likely to charge and kill an unattended calf. This is assessed by their behaviors during the bullfight, outside of the brawling that occurs.

Bullfights
All Eotriceratops engaging in bullfights must leave their in game groups and fight solo.
Two Eotriceratops bulls begin a bullfight by slowly circling each other, with low growls to declare their intent. This non-contact display serves as an assessment of size, strength, and confidence. What begins as low, rumbling vocalizations as the two bulls start the bullfight, turns to aggressive, loud bellows as the circle begins to shrink – bringing the bulls closer and closer to the proper brawl.
Bulls who rush to close the circle too soon are seen as overly aggressive, and are rejected as matriarchs by potential mates.
If neither bull submits during the initial circling phase, once they reach each other in the middle of the circle, they begin to brutally rake their horns into each other's sides, and slam their heads together, interlocking horns in a brutal brawl.
These fights are intense and bloody, and continue until one or both bulls reach half health in the dry season, or until both bulls back off in the rainy season.
If a bull does not back off of a rival and instead goes as far as to kill them, the matriarch will reject him for being over-aggressive.
In the final stage of the bullfight, once the bulls have pulled back from brawling, the bulls continue to face one another, backing up in a direct straight line to make room for charging distance, bellowing, posturing, and stomping. Before charging, both bulls slam their forelegs into the earth and roar, rushing forward in sync and slamming into one another face to face.
Bulls typically do not attack after this charge, the display is a show of strength and finality to the bullfight.
Highly aggressive bulls - or bulls during the rainy season - take this opportunity to land a few more blows on their opponent before they both back away.

The Matriarch's Choice
The matriarch approaches the bulls once they back off from one another after the final charge. After taking a moment to consider both bull's behaviors during their battle, she finally turns to the bull she deems to be unsuitable, and lets out an aggressive call.
If the bull returns her aggression, she moves forward to push him, using her frill to push him away from her and her prospective bull.
Well-mannered bulls turn their backs and move off, laying a good distance away to heal again so that they can put up another fight with a different bull.
If two matriarchs observe the same fight, the matriarch who approached the fight first will get to pick the winner.
The matriarch then turns to her choice of bull and shakes her frill affectionately. If the bull intends to accept the matriarch, he shakes his frill in return.
 
They then begin to circle each other in the same fashion as the bulls did to begin the bullfight, until they slowly meet in the middle – where they nuzzle and call affectionately to one another.
If a bull is part of a bull pair, and has a strongly bonded bull relative (or friend) with him, this other bull approaches slowly, making calm and gentle movements to show the matriarch he is part of a duo.
After inspecting him, she will turn to nuzzle him as well if accepting - or call aggressively if she decides to reject him.
If rejected, the accepted bull must decide what to do next. He can either break away from his bull companion to join the females, or join him and leave the matriarch.
If the bull chooses to instead reject the matriarch and leave with his fellow bull, he does so by simply turning his back on the matriarch, careful not to show aggression, as he and his companion leave to find other opportunities.
 If there is only one bull at a courtship ground and no bullfights are possible, the matriarch will wait 10 minutes before deciding if the bull is suitable enough for her and her group. If he fails to draw her attention, she gathers up her matriarchy to migrate again, intending to return another time.

Greeting the Matriarchy
In order to call her matriarchy to meet the bull, the matriarch broadcasts, announcing to the other cows in her group to approach.
If two bulls have been accepted, females will have their pick of either bull in the pair. However, the matriarch will always select the bull that won the initial bullfight.
All cows wanting to nest approach and shake their frills at the bull (or bulls) at this time. If a bull intends to reject a female, he will turn his back to her, ignore her, and move on to the next female whom approaches.
✦ Nesting
Once these initial pieces of courtship have completed, bulls follow (but do not group in game) the matriarchy to the nesting grounds. Bulls keep a respectful distance from the cows unless approached by them.
During this time, if a solitary bull that has successfully courted the herd is attacked, the matriarch may step up to defend him.
When the group of Eotriceratops arrives at the nesting grounds, the matriarch will be the first to place her nest – typically the most central – and the rest of the cows work together to build an interconnected structure of nests. This is often built of branches, roots, bushes, and other materials in order to provide a united front, and a warm safe place for all calves to rest and play while growing at the nesting grounds.
Bulls do not assist in this behavior, and stick to patrolling 10 body lengths away from their nesting matriarchy.
Bulls that get within 10 body lengths of the nests are aggressively sent out.
✦ Parenthood
Eotriceratops females take part in a behavior called allomothering – meaning that all offspring are tended to by all females in a herd. This is a behavior taught to them from a very young age, as even adolescent females will assist with the raising of offspring.
The matriarch is considered the mother of all mothers within a matriarchy, and is often left to babysit or attend to offspring while new mothers get food and water. She helps new mothers learn how to take care of their calves, and will quickly adopt a calf if its mother dies.
While their biological mother is the first to tenderly greet calves as they hatch, guiding them and protecting them from the moment they arrive, all cows in the herd will excitedly greet the newborn calf, nuzzling it and affectionately calling it.
Bulls are not tolerated any closer even when offspring hatch, and are aggressively driven off by the cows - and matriarch - if they get too close.
 
Youngest calf reaching juvenile
As calves reach juvenile, they begin to grow more confident, and the group opts to resume migrations - this time with the bull(s) now in tow.
As the youngest calf reaches juvenile, the bull(s) are permitted to finally approach the nesting area, and form a new in game group - known as a herd.
While the calves will receive tender affection from any cow in the herd, bulls are not allowed close to calves until they are properly introduced. Until the matriarch arrives, females move with their babies away from the bull and towards the matriarch.
Bulls have no real paternal instinct or desire to be close to the calves, and do not protect them if the calf is attacked near them. If the calf attempts to use the bull as a meatshield, and does so continuously despite being aggressed, he will attack it.
Matriarchs take this opportunity to introduce the calves to the bulls to minimize the chances of infanticide. This is done by the matriarch gathering all offspring alongside her, and gently nuzzling them and comforting them as the bull (or bulls) approaches.
She stays calmly beside them, encouraging them to lift their heads and stay still, while she keeps her eyes firmly fixed on the bull(s).
This forces the bull to be on his best behavior. In the case that he decides to be aggressive towards the calves, she will rush forward, using her massive frill to block the bull and continue to shove him back. Experienced bulls will abide by these gestures, and younger, more aggressive bulls may attempt to ignore her – with risk of being shunned from the herd.
If the bull shows aggression, cows quickly escort calves to a defensive circle in order to protect them from the bull, aggressing him when he comes near, until the matriarch deems it safe to disperse by approaching and shaking out her frill.
Eotriceratops cows are very protective over babies, and may refuse to let bulls close even after the calves have been introduced, especially if the female has lost a calf to a bull.

Growing Up
As bull calves begin to reach adolescent, they begin to express more interest in their fathers, who accept the attention begrudgingly. Bulls may then choose whether or not they would like to teach their offspring to bullfight and exhibit proper bull behaviors; otherwise it is done by the matriarch.
Eotriceratops cows form lifelong bonds with their offspring, particularly their own daughters, and are extremely protective of them. A daughter well raised will take after her mother in migration routes and nesting habits, and may even be permitted to join the same matriarchy as she reaches sub-adult.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 29.08.2025 19:50
✦ Offspring Maturity
When female calves reach Sub-Adult, they are appraised by the matriarch closely. The matriarch determines whether or not the now adult cows will be allowed to stay with the matriarchy, or if they must move off to form their own or find one to join. 
Some mothers may follow their closest bonded daughters if they are expelled from the matriarchy.
Male calves that reach Sub-Adult are immediately sent out to disperse, often sent away in groups with their brothers and half brothers.
Once all offspring have reached Sub-Adult, bulls disperse from the herd into a bull group, and leave the matriarchy for other opportunities.
✦ Adoption
Eotriceratops cows who have been recently bereaved of a calf in herds may adopt. In order to successfully adopt a calf, however, she must get it around the bull. A bull is typically distracted by the matriarch or other females during this time while the calf is brought to meet the other calves and become one of many. 
These adoptees are always at a risk of being aggressed or killed by the bull, especially if not introduced properly.
In matriarchies, females may adopt at any time.
Bulls do not adopt, and may instead commit infanticide against calves they encounter.
✦ Same-Sex Pairs
Eotriceratops may form same sex pairs of either sex. Cow pairs may adopt, but bulls do not.
Bulls in same sex pairs do not form herds or court females, instead preferring to remain with their bull partners.
Cows in same sex pairs still join matriarchies, but opt not to court bulls. They still travel with their matriarch to the courting and nesting grounds.
 
Bild
Eotriceratops bulls who are older in age begin to desaturate, losing their appeal to most matriarchs. This typically means older bulls will only be selected by the females that know him well, and who have courted with him multiple times before – but he still must prove himself through a bullfight.
Older bulls may follow behind matriarchies they have courted multiple times previously, but will not group with them unless they have successfully courted the matriarch at a nesting ground and offspring are present. They will alert matriarchies to threats, but do  not help defend them.
Elderly cows tend to slow down in their age, and migrate at the back of the herd, if not the matriarch herself. They are quite fond of laying in the sunlight and are often given the responsibility of watching over calves while other mothers take a break.
They show less interest in nesting, and tend to prioritize taking care of others calves in the herd.
✦ Death
Elderly Eotriceratops who are ready to pass make their final migrations to Dried Lake in Gondwa or Dry Fang Canyon in Riparia, surrounded by the individuals they love and care for. Strongly bonded bull pairs often pass simultaneously, if they have made it that long. They go quiet and peacefully, laying down their large frilled heads, and closing their eyes to rest permanently.
Mother Eotriceratops may defend the bodies of calves Adolescent or below for up to one minute immediately following their death. The rest of the herd quickly move away from the situation, bellowing and calling for her to try to snap her out of her wrathful grief.
A mother Eotriceratops defending her calf's body in this way will not charge or chase for more than one bodylength away from the body. She takes a defensive stance over her calf's body, headbutting the air and aggressively calling.
As she realizes her calf is dead, she will look down to it and nuzzle it, giving it one more loving call before fleeing back to her herd in grieving panic.
If the matriarch of a herd or matriarchy dies to a predator, the entire rest of the herd immediately panic and stampede away from the body and the predator, calling desperately until they are out of LOS of her, ignoring all other species in the meantime. Then, they stand in shocked silence, until the inheritor steps forward to comfort the herd and take her role as matriarch.
If no such inheritor steps forward, the terrible grief of losing a matriarch may force a matriarchy or herd to split. The death of a matriarch is a terrible loss for a matriarchy, and if no female steps forward to take her role, the matriarchy struggles to find unity.
All Eotriceratops form very strong bonds within their groups, and will mourn and remember places where their friends and loved ones have died for the rest of their lives.
Mourning Eotriceratops may take a flower in honor of the memory of a loved one and take it to Dried Lake, which is treated as a universal Eotriceratops resting place.
 
Bild
Solitary bulls and bull groups do not enter the nesting areas in Broken Tooth Canyon, Rainbow Hills, Rockfall Hill, Green Valley, Tallbrush Coasts, or Hollow Hills unless they have successfully courted females that are nesting there.
However, matriarchs will not allow bulls within 10 body lengths of nests.
Bulls that form strong bonds with another bull disperse from larger bull groups, limiting their grouping to just the pair of them. They no longer tolerate other bulls joining their group.
When not grouped with females (migrating to the nesting grounds or encountering a group of females while migrating), Eotriceratops bulls will not defend them. However, if a solitary bull is hunted on the way to the nesting grounds, the matriarch may step up to defend him.
Bulls do not use block in bullfights, instinct and hormones amping up their aggression, and fully immersing them in the engagement. Bulls who use block are less preferred by matriarchs than those who do not use block.
If females join the matriarchy after bulls have been accepted, but before nesting has occurred, they may also take their pick of the available bulls, introduced by the matriarch.
If bulls have temporarily ungrouped in order to bullfight, but are in a bonded pair, and one individual in the pair is attacked, both bulls may regroup to defend one another. 
If bulls are attacked while in a bullfight, but are not bonded in any way, the bull who is not attacked must immediately move 10 bodylengths from the engagement.
 
Bild
Bulls may only group with cows when there are offspring present. Once the youngest calf reaches Sub-Adult, he will disperse.
Bulls do not commit infanticide to related individuals of Adolescent and older. However, bulls will commit infanticide on all ungrouped individuals of Adolescent or younger.
When bullfighting, both bulls must leave their in game groups and fight solo.
RULE EXEMPTIONS
Eotriceratops bulls may ignore body down rules if killing Eotriceratops offspring. (5.1)
Eotriceratops mothers may defend the body of their calf that is Adolescent or below for up to one minute immediately following their death. (5.1)
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 22:55
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
✦ Riparia Differences
In Riparia, Eotriceratops can travel anywhere on the map, but have designated courtship and nesting grounds.
Profile - Quick View
Eotriceratops are Apex Diurnal Terrestrial Herbivores.
Eotriceratops can group up 12 Sub/Adult females in a matriarchy, 14 Sub/Adults (with up to 2 bulls and 12 females) in a herd, and up to 6 males in a bull group.
Eotriceratops males are aggressive, Eotriceratops females are tolerant.
Eotriceratops can have up to 2 in an engagement or challenge, typically a pair of bulls, the bull and the matriarch, or the matriarch and one other female.
The matriarch is the center of Eotriceratops social groups, leading migrations across Gondwa, from the courtship grounds to nesting grounds. Her role is extremely important to the success of the herd.
Eotriceratops cows form extremely strong bonds with one another and their calves, and practice allomothering – communal calf raising where every female in the herd assists.
Eotriceratops bulls and cows only rarely interact, and prioritize bonding within their own sexes. A bull and cows should only ever be grouped if there are offspring from Juvenile to Sub-Adult present.
Eotriceratops bulls are extremely aggressive, and may commit infanticide to their own offspring if improperly introduced - or others they come across - at any time. This results in a bull being shunned from the herd immediately.
Eotriceratops bulls may form particularly strong bonds with other bulls, forming bull pairs – and can claim matriarchies together.
Bulls flush with additional testosterone in the rainy season, ending up with a higher number of male calves born in clutches. They show more aggression, and go further in bullfights at this time. Conversely, in the dry season, more female calves are born on average.
Bulls that are grouped in a herd with females and offspring become highly territorial of the herd, and attack any species that comes within 5 body lengths of them.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes):  20-60-75-85 = 240 total
Combat Weight: 5500
Adjusted Stats:
⁨
- Armor increased to 1.2 from 1
- Max health increased to 1300 from 800
- Turn & turn in place radius increased 
⁩ 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 31.01.2026 16:46
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Predator Reaction 
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?