Rhamphorhynchus
    "Rhamph", "Rhamphy"
Rhamphorhynchus are small aerial fishers and scavengers who form mutualistic relationships with sauropods such as Amargasaurus, Ampelosaurus, Apatosaurus and Argentinosaurus. They clean them of parasites while utilizing them as roosts for their flightless offspring. They are social within their colonies and form quick bonds with one another.

⁨⁨
Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Red
Includes ideas from: Kittyful
Photo: Clemidity
Profile inspired by vampire bats, parakeets, Clark’s grebe, cattle egret, and creative liberty.
⁩⁩

Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 28.10.2025 20:13
Overview
Bild
Tiny Cathemeral Aerial Carnivore
Rhamphorhynchus form harem bonds.
Rhamphorhynchus are nomadic.
Rhamphorhynchus have a passive nature.
Rhamphorhynchus are scavengers.
Rhamphorhynchus tolerate mutated individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Rhamphorhynchus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Unlimited Sub/Adults, consisting of female groups and their offspring, resident males, and non resident males
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a colony.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Rhamphorhynchus have no engagement limit, but do not hunt.
Rhamphorhynchus may only scavenge or hunt critters. If aggressed while scavenging, they must flee.
Up to 4 Rhamphorhynchus may remain pounced on a sauropod companion (Amargasaurus, Ampelosaurus, Apatosaurus, or Argentinosaurus) when they are hunted, and may use Shared Rhythm and Plotting Whispers while doing so. However, if the Rhamphorhynchus is bitten or runs out of stamina, they must flee and disengage, and may not return to the engagement.
Rhamphorhynchus may not use Rat Out to alert predators to the presence of herbivores, near sleeping creatures, or during an active engagement.
Rhamphorhynchus may not use Plague Carrier or Infectious Touch while pounced on sauropods or other herbivore companions.

Rhamph Sting: 
If Rhamphorhynchus pounce onto another herbivore or carnivore with the Plague Carrier and/or Infectious Touch ability, they will remain latched until out of stamina, attacked by, or shaken off by the target. 
This is referred to as “a Rhamph sting,” and results in the target being hungry and thirsty faster, as well as having itchy skin, feathers, and scales. Depending on the severity of the sting (how long the Rhamph was latched), the effects may stay up for a full in game day cycle.
Rhamphorhynchus only “sting” others as a last resort, as following a successful landed sting, the Rhamphorhynchus begins to physically deteriorate, and dies within 30 minutes.

Preferred Prey
Fish, carrion, critters.
Rhamphorhynchus may eat the body of another Rhamphorhynchus if given the opportunity.
Rhamphorhynchus may eat Metriacanthosaurus bodies without suffering any averse side effects.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 1 hour.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 1 hour.
Rhamphorhynchus nest on cliffsides and near water, preferably near to a resting or nesting herbivore herd.
Rhamphorhynchus may form same-sex pairs, but may not nest & may adopt.

Physical Dimorphism
Rhamphorhynchus have no physical dimorphism.
This profile does have high and low T individuals; they exhibit the opposite color patterning than that of their biological sex every season. (i.e a high t female is bright in the dry season). However, this results in confusion during courting.
♀️ Females, known as pens, are more colorful in the wet season, and desaturated in the dry season.
♂️ Males, known as drakes, are more colorful in the dry season, and desaturated in the wet season.
 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Baby Rhamphorhynchus, known as chicks, are born tiny and fragile on high cliffsides across Gondwa, or nearby water sources. At birth they are unable to fly, but are quickly able to move around and call for their parents. They prefer to be as close to their mothers or fathers as possible, huddling in tight to absorb their body heat whenever they can.
Some chicks - most commonly occurring in the last egg to hatch -  exhibit splay leg, a temporary condition that inhibits their movement and forces them to remain immobile in the nest until Juvenile. This results in a great deal of dismay and concern from parents.
Chicks are capable of swimming as soon as they hatch, but are unable to dive. They will follow close behind their parents if possible, and exhibit fear otherwise.
Hatchling Rhamphorhynchus are particularly demanding for food, constantly issuing small, trilling calls in order to indicate their hunger. Making sure that they are suitably fed is one of the most important aspects of a Rhamphorhynchus chick’s early life. They grow rapidly, and require near constant feeding, much to their parents' dismay.
At Juvenile - if the colony is nesting with a nearby sauropod/herbivore herd - chicks are encouraged to pounce onto the backs and sides of the large herbivores, in order to keep up with migration.
If the colony is not nesting with herbivores, colonies instead teach chicks how to climb down cliffsides, and travel primarily grounded until chicks are able to fly. However, this leaves chicks exposed to predators, and is not preferred.
Chicks are curious and chatty, and often develop preferred individuals to pounce on. When the colony and herd is at rest, chicks enjoy running around on the ground, picking up items and presenting them to each other, their parents, and the herbivores their colony has chosen.
By the time chicks are juvenile, they are able to dive and fish for themselves independently.
Chicks are unable to fly until adolescence. At this point, they spring off the sides of their chosen herbivores and into the air, calling excitedly. They fly along with one another and their parents, performing small aerial displays of diving through the air and into water. 
If a chick hatched with splay leg has managed to pounce and latch onto an accepting herbivore for most of their early lives; they go on to make a full recovery by Adolescent. If not - they face struggles with movement throughout the rest of their lives, and will prefer to exclusively fly, swim, or travel latched to the sides of herbivores, limiting their movement on the ground.
At Adolescent, they are fully self-sufficient, and will no longer be provided for by their parents. However, no Rhamphorhynchus is capable of nesting or being courted until Sub-Adult.

✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Rhamphorhynchus chicks who hatch alone face high predation rates, unable to easily flee from their natural predators unless they are near a water source. They are typically only capable of survival if a sauropod or large herbivore herd come across them.
They quickly learn to be self-sufficient by the time they are juvenile, and are able to swim and to fish quickly. They do not begin to fly until they are juvenile, and begin to do so by instinctively seeking cliffs to throw themselves off of, and having the air catch their wings.
These Rhamphorhynchus typically form close bonds with sauropods, especially if growing up with them - viewing them as pseudo-parental figures.
By the time they are adolescent, they are adept flyers and fishers, and are capable of aerial displays. However, they do not court or nest until they reach Sub-Adult in age.
Bild
Rhamphorhynchus are cathemeral in order to best fit the needs of their high metabolism, but enjoy traveling and exploring best at night. They have well-developed night vision and enjoy resting in completely dark areas, such as caves and small holes in the ground.
Rhamphorhynchus saliva has anticoagulant compounds that prolong bleeding and inhibit blood clotting, as well as compounds that prevent the re-construction of damaged blood vessels. In order to combat their constant hunger, some Rhamphorhynchus may take part in hematophagy - the consumption of the blood of other animals.
Sounds are unique from individual to individual, making them easily identifiable within their colony. Mothers quickly recognize, and gravitate to, the sounds of their offspring.
Rhamphorhynchus are exclusively fishers and scavengers. They dive both within salt and freshwater sources, hunting for insects, worms, crustaceans, salamanders, small fish, frogs, and other small reptiles.
Rhamphorhynchus develop mutualistic relationships with large herbivores across Gondwa, particularly sauropods such as Amargasaurus, Ampelosaurus, Apatosaurus and Argentinosaurus. These unique relationships are seen most commonly amongst Rhamphorhynchus when it comes time to breed and nest, as Rhamphorhynchus will choose to nest nearby sauropods for the benefits it poses to their offspring. 
In return, Rhamphorhynchus clean their herbivore companion's nests and bodies, ensuring they remain free of parasites and other mess.
Rhamphorhynchus can be observed attempting to copy and mimic all sounds that they hear, whether they come from other animals or foliage. While this mimicry may not always be accurate, some older Rhamphorhynchus are able to mimic the sounds of young dinosaurs crying out.
Rhamphorhynchus do not exhibit much emotional or actual intelligence, but instinctively go completely silent at the sight of a predator, quickly dispersing with the rest of their colony to make room for any hunt that may occur. Only if another Rhamphorhynchus is attacked will they shriek in fear or fury.

Rhamph Sting
Rhamphorhynchus often carry fungal spores in their feathers and on their talons. While most Rhamphorhynchus keep themselves clean and well maintained in this aspect, others may opt to use it as a method of attack or defense for their allies.
Rhamphorhynchus may latch to another species with Plague Carrier and/or Infectious Touch active. They will remain latched to their target for as long as possible, unless bitten, out of stamina, or shaken off.
Once shaken off, a 30 minute timer begins. Rhamphorhynchus begin to die at this stage, not immune to their own fungal spores. They are unable to cure this and are unable to “sting” again. See Death under Elderly Behavior for more.
For other species, being stung by a Rhamphorhynchus means itchy scales, skin, or feathers, and at times a more irritable manner. Continuous scratching of itchy places may result in raw skin and turn to infection. These stung creatures also grow hungry and thirsty faster. Depending on how long the Rhamphorhynchus was latched, the effects of the sting fade after the next in game day cycle.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Rhamphorhynchus do not sleep often, but when they do, will find high safe perches within caves to construct cozy nests on and curl up within. Often, entire swarms will flock to the same nests - even if it means stealing the nest from whoever had it before!
Sleeping is a very vulnerable activity for Rhamphorhynchus; as a result, they are very light sleepers.
In colder periods, Rhamphorhynchus are seen entering a state of torpor; standing in one place and becoming completely unresponsive to any outside activity. These periods are brief and often result in the Rhamphorhynchus waking back up with a flurry of flaps and calls.
 
Bild
Within a colony, natural cliques may form, typically those of a “resident male” and his temporary harem. Males who do not have harems within a colony are considered “non resident males”, and typically socialize amongst themselves, while females are very easily accepted into social groups with their mothers and sisters.
Due to their high metabolism, Rhamphorhynchus can only survive a short time without food. As a result, a frequent form of socialization between Rhamphorhynchus is “begging” - a hungry Rhamphorhynchus issuing short and sharp trills at a friend, family member or mate in order to demand food. 
More often than not, this individual is happy to assist or directly provide, responding with trills of its own before flying off to find a fish or suitable insects. If otherwise occupied or uninterested, they will not reply with these calls, and instead might fly away. 
This is the fastest way to form strong bonds between individuals, and males who respond to a female’s needs when she begs in this fashion are typically those that are first chosen for courtship.
Rhamphorhynchus also bond through mutual preening, laying close to one another and picking through each other’s feathers. This is most popularly seen amongst groups of bonded females, but males exhibit this behavior as well in lesser amounts.
✦ Solitary Behavior
Solitary Rhamphorhynchus do not struggle as severely as some other species when solitary, but may show signs of incorrect grooming and preening, and must prioritize fishing and scavenging in order to satiate their own hunger.
These individuals will often seek out herbivore herds to follow as a form of companionship alongside themselves, but will trail behind at a distance, especially if shown aggression to.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Albino Rhamphorhynchus are most prone to having splay leg in their youth, and often hatch with varying forms of deafness and blindness. While still fed and protected by their parents, they have a low survival rate due to often experiencing a failure to thrive. Additionally, they experience struggles with courtship in adulthood.
Melanistic Rhamphorhynchus are regarded with curiosity by other Rhamphorhynchus, as their sex is often indiscernible purely by sight. However, they are identified depending on the courtship behaviors they exhibit during courtship - and as a result, may still court successfully in the season where their colors correlate (i.e. a melanistic male may court in the rainy season).
Bild
Rhamphorhynchus do not often exhibit aggression towards other Rhamphorhynchus; however, any incorrect behaviors are corrected by nips in their direction and loud, shrieking calls.
Rhamphorhynchus do not compete for mates or resources amongst their own species, as any bonds made are temporary, and can be redone at the next courting opportunity.
Bild
✦ Herbivores
Rhamphorhynchus may be observed forming mutualistic relationships with other species of herbivores. While Rhamphorhynchus prioritize sauropods such as Amargasaurus, Ampelosaurus, Apatosaurus, and Argentinosaurus, they may also temporarily follow and nest alongside larger herbivore species that may tolerate them, such as: Eotriceratops, Barsboldia, Iguanodon, Parasaurolophus, and Pachyrhinosaurus. 
If a non-sauropod is temporarily followed, Rhamphorhynchus colonies will always abandon the herbivore and flock to sauropods when discovered.
Rhamphorhynchus take part in grooming their herbivore herds during rest periods and may present them with curious items they find. Any item that is eaten or taken by the herbivore results in great dismay from the Rhamphorhynchus.
Rhamphorhynchus will avoid Struthiomimus to the best of their ability, but are not required to entirely avoid herds where Struthiomimus are present.
When spending time with Apatosaurus, Rhamphorhynchus rely on the massive sauropods for protection from Struthiomimus. Apatosaurus do not tolerate aggression towards Rhamphorhynchus and quickly correct any untoward behaviors towards them with a short charge and a crack of their tail.
Rhamphorhynchus form “bonds” with sauropods, aided by these giant species assisting with carrying their offspring during migrations, and providing a rich resource of ticks and other parasites. As a result, Rhamphorhynchus colonies may often follow the same sauropod or sauropod herd throughout their entire lives, and across multiple generations.
Some Rhamphorhynchus develop preferences for a particular individual, often for the sauropod whom they roosted on in their early life.
If a herbivore shakes while Rhamphorhynchus are latched onto it, they will quickly get the signal and leap off, calling sadly. If aggressed, they do not attempt to latch to the same herbivore again.
✦ Leedsichthys
Most Rhamphorhynchus can hardly contain their joy when encountering these large fish. A sighting often causes a Rhamphorhynchus to react with calls of excitement, flying above, or diving into the waters to observe Leedsichthys up close.
Rhamphorhynchus are quick to begin preening these large fish, digging between their scales and gills for parasites or krill remains.
Their enjoyment of these species can result in a Rhamphorhynchus returning with various gifts for the Leedsichthys, watching on with curiosity and enthusiasm when their offerings are interacted with.
 
Bild
Rhamphorhynchus are similarly friendly with carnivores, but do not seek the same mutualistic relationship with them as they do with herbivores, not wanting to risk being hunted themselves.
When following a herbivore herd, Rhamphorhynchus go quiet and quickly flee from the herd upon seeing a carnivore. While they do not attempt to interfere with the hunt of any non-sauropod, up to 4 Rhamphorhynchus who are latched to a sauropod companion (Amargasaurus, Ampelosaurus, Apatosaurus, or Argentinosaurus) can remain latched, and may buff them during the engagement with “Shared Rhythm” and “Plotting Whispers”.
However, if a Rhamphorhynchus is bitten or runs out of stamina, it leaps off with a fearful call, quickly fleeing from the area and finding a place to hide and recoup.
Rhamphorhynchus will share food sources with other Rhamphorhynchus, but do not share with any other scavengers, meeting them with aggressive calls. Unfortunately, they are unable to do much for the defense of a claimed corpse; their thin, needle-like teeth glancing off the thicker hides of other carnivores.
Instead, Rhamphorhynchus may attempt to quickly pluck an extra piece of flesh from the corpse and fly away with it, ensuring the scavenger gets less of a meal.
Bild
✦ Courtship
Only individuals who display their correct coloring for the season may court successfully. Drakes flush their colors in the dry season and desaturate in the rainy season, while pens display their colors in the rainy season and desaturate in the dry season.
Courtship is a simple and swift process. Pens are those who choose which drake they would like for the season, while drakes perform one of the following displays in order to entice them:

Rushing:
Two drakes take to competitively flying together over the top of the water, as close to the water as possible. Those who land in the water, or do not dive as low as the other, suffer a loss, and are not picked by pens unless they perform a different and more satisfactory display.
Drakes will broadcast loudly to draw the attention of females, and as an attempt to intimidate his competition. Once the males have landed, both will stretch their wings out wide.
Pens flock to and mimic the posture of the winning drake, indicating their interest in courtship.

Lakeweed Dance:
A drake may opt instead to pick a nice hunk of lakeweed in order to aid him in display. The choice of a proper weed is essential to the success of the male, so he takes time to carefully investigate potential options before making his pick.
Once he has done so, he finds a high place to perch and broadcast until pens come to watch.
With a suitable audience, the drake once again picks up his lakeweed, clasping it between his jaws while he performs a dance.
To signify the completion of the dance, he will stretch out his wings.
If a pen - or multiple pens - enjoyed the dance, she returns the motion.
If not, she issues a loud, almost mocking call at him, before flying away.

Gifting:
Often the most popular form of courtship, drakes take some time to bring pens gifts such as interesting forage, fish, and pebbles.
A pen will always reject a male who brings her lakeweed by quickly taking off and into the air.
To indicate that a gift is being given with the intention of courtship, a male will stretch out his wings immediately after delivering it. If a pen is interested in him, she will copy the motion.
Once a pair or harem has been established, they take to flying close together and calling loudly, circling and diving around one another.
Pens who are interested in forming bonds with other pens may take the place of the male in courtship, and drakes who are interested in courting other drakes may join the other females.
✦ Nesting
A harem or pair will stay bonded until a suitable nesting ground is found; preferably near a sauropod or suitable herbivore herd. Rhamphorhynchus nest communally near water and on cliffsides.
Pens lead and choose a suitable place for nesting, more often than not nearby the nests of sauropods or other herbivores. Drakes help them fill the nests with food in order to ensure that the hatchlings remain fed and that they do not starve.
Mothers remain perched on top of nests until the eggs hatch, loudly calling at anything that comes near. Drakes, and other females, ferociously flock to and mob individuals that are unwelcome near their nests. Curious baby herbivores and their parents are reluctantly tolerated.
✦ Parenthood
Rhamphorhynchus parents focus on feeding their offspring during their hatchling stage, encouraging them to grow quickly while catering to their chicks’ fast metabolisms. One parent will stay behind to keep the chicks warm while the other rushes to the nearest water source to eat and return with food.
This is kept in careful balance until the juvenile stage, where chicks are then able to pounce onto the sides and backs of their herbivore companions. Sauropods are much preferred as they do not mind the presence of Rhamphorhynchus chicks in the way that some other herbivores might.
Rhamphorhynchus parents continue to provide for their chicks until they are Adolescent, teaching them how to fish for themselves as well as how to fly (typically during break periods when their chosen herd is not migrating). They will also teach chicks how to clean the herbivores of parasites.
Once a chick is Adolescent, they are regarded as a fully fledged member of the colony, but will not be courted or nested with until they are at least Sub/Adult. Parents no longer feed them - unless their chick begs them for it!
✦ Adoption
Same-sex and opposite-sex pairs and harems will immediately adopt any orphaned chick they find, and will provide for it the same way as any other parents.
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 28.10.2025 20:21
Bild
Elderly Rhamphorhynchus are a rare sight; but prefer to travel exclusively by water or latched onto the side of a herbivore. Flight and moving on the ground provides a great deal of stress on their joints.
Elderly Rhamphorhynchus are often much quieter than their younger counterparts, either to avoid predation or due to encroaching deafness.
✦ Death
Rhamphorhynchus often die due to crash collisions with rocks, trees, or even sauropod friends. Only family members and close friends or mates mourn the loss, with shocked and fearful cries surrounding the body. Rhamphorhynchus may eat the corpses of a fallen ally.

Rhamph Sting
After a Rhamphorhynchus has stung another individual, a 30 minute timer begins before they die.
Rhamphorhynchus in this stage of their life become much more irritable and confused. They are constantly hungry and thirsty, but forget to eat unless fed. This often results in an early death for most Rhamphorhynchus.
Rhamphorhynchus are not outwardly aggressive towards others at this time, and cannot sting others again.
They begin to forget how to fly, and run in circles on the ground, disoriented.
Rhamphorhynchus also may forget to go up for air when swimming, and may die due to drowning.
 
Bild
None.
Bild
Rhamphorhynchus do not use “Rat Out” nearby active engagements, sleeping herbivores, or in order to alert carnivores to nearby herbivores.
Rhamphorhynchus go silent at the sight of a carnivore when with herbivores, and will fly away if an engagement is at risk.
However, up to 4 Rhamphorhynchus who are latched to a sauropod (Amargasaurus, Ampelosaurus, Apatosaurus, Argentinosaurus) may remain latched and use buffs such as Plotting Whispers and Shared Rhythm. Up to 4 Rhamphorhynchus may be latched across an entire herd and colony, not per individual. Rhamphorhynchus who are bitten or run out of stamina must immediately disengage. 3.13
Rhamphorhynchus do not use Plague Carrier or Infectious Touch while latched to sauropods or other tolerant herbivores.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 31.01.2026 14:57
Bild
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 01:29
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Rhamphorhynchus are Tiny Cathemeral Aerial Carnivores.
Rhamphorhynchus can group up to unlimited sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees. These groups are known as a colony. Social groups typically consist of a resident male (a male with a harem) and his females.
Rhamphorhynchus are passive.
Rhamphorhynchus may scavenge, fish, and hunt critters at any time.
Rhamphorhynchus form unique mutualistic relationships with sauropods and some other herbivores, cleaning them of parasites while ensuring that feeble Rhamphorhynchus chicks are protected.
Rhamphorhynchus naturally mimic all sounds that they hear, to varying degrees of success.
Rhamphorhynchus go silent and quickly fly away if bearing witness to a carnivore approaching a herbivore herd.
Rhamphorhynchus males, known as drakes, have three options for methods of courtship, with females, known as pens, making the final decision. Rhamphorhynchus form temporary harem bonds.
Rhamphorhynchus bond by preening and begging for food from one another.
Rhamphorhynchus chicks may suffer from an affliction called splay leg, which results in chicks being unable to move or swim as efficiently as other chicks in their clutch.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 0-10-20-20 = 60 total
Combat Weight: 500
Adjusted Stats: Movement speed increased by 20%
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Predator Reaction
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?