Anodontosaurus
    "Ano"
Anodontosaurus is an aloof, independent and stubborn dinosaur. While tolerant by nature, they are not inherently social and most favor a predominantly solitary lifestyle.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Costxllo
Photo: Babble
Profile inspired by pangolins, badgers, wombats and sea turtles.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 24.11.2025 00:31
Overview
Bild
Medium Diurnal Terrestrial Herbivore
Anodontosaurus form temporary pairbonds.
Anodontosaurus are sedentary.
Anodontosaurus have a tolerant nature.
Anodontosaurus may not group with other species.
Anodontosaurus tolerate mutated individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Anodontosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic, DR Axanthic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

PROFILE SPECIFIC UNIQUE FEATURE
Anodontosaurus can develop a profile specific illness, showcased by wearing the Gastroenteritis Infection skin from the ⁨Dynasty Morph Skins⁩ mod.
Anodontosaurus that consume the same food type (flowers, fruit, roots, nuts) for longer than one in-game day cycle become sick with Gastroenteritis Infection. 
Only after the skin has shed and the player has eaten another food type can the player move past the illness.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Anodontosaurus are often solitary and may be reluctant to join groups.
However, some individuals occasionally form small groups with those they feel close to.

Up to 6 Sub-Adult/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees.

This group is known as a tumble.
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Predator Reaction: ⁨Defensive⁩ 
Anodonotsaurus only defend themselves and their offspring under Sub-Adult. Other adults are not defended.
Both parents can work to defend their young simultaneously.

Anodontosaurus stake claim over food resources they are eating from and will defend this resource and 2 body lengths around the resource from all other dinosaurs.
Anodontosaurus are hardy and do not flee from any tier of dinosaur -  unless they decide the situation seems dire.

Preferred Diet
Anodontosaurus mainly feast on fruit, roots, nuts and flowers.
Anodontosaurus require a varied diet consisting of fruits, roots, nuts, and flowers, consumed in rotation. Overconsumption of a single food type can lead to illness. (See General Behavior)
Adolescent and younger Anodontosaurus prioritize fruit over other food sources due to their high nutritional value, and do not adhere to the strict dietary requirements for adults.
 
Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 3 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 5 🥚﻿ per 2 hour.
Albinos only produce 1 egg in either season. Females that nest with male albinos will lay just one fertile egg from this pairing.
Anodontosaurus nest in dense foliage and bushes.
Anodontosaurus may form same-sex pairs, but may not nest, & may adopt.
Anodontosaurus who are temporarily sick with a Gastroenteritis Infection are temporarily infertile and may not nest.

Physical Dimorphism
Physical dimorphism for Anodontosaurus is mandatory.
This profile does not have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Females are stockier, with shorter, rounder scutes on their backs and necks.
Suitable subspecies include: Obtunsi
♂️ Males are leaner, with larger scutes on their head and neck.
Suitable subspecies include: Lambei, Rasai
Anodontosaurus do not have color dimorphism, and individuals can be seen in a wide variety of colors.
Dimorphism Examples
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 24.11.2025 00:44
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Anodontosaurus hatchlings, known as pups, are immobile and vulnerable as soon as they're born. Clutches of Anodontosaurus offspring usually hatch at the same time, with siblings breaking out of their eggs one after the other.
Hatchlings - not yet fully developed - do not stray from the safety of the nest, and stay sheltered in the thicket crafted by their parents.
At this age, they are completely reliant on their parents for protection and food.
Once they mature into Juvenile, the muscles in their legs become strong enough to support their heavy bodies - and with gentle encouragement from their parents pups begin to wobble to their feet.
Instinctively, young Anodontosaurus stay close to their parents, often pressing against their legs for reassurance and comfort.
Until pups gain confident mobility on their legs, the tumble usually remains in the same area, allowing young to build confidence before beginning any journeys.
This lasts until offspring are halfway through their Juvenile period - or until food becomes scarce in the POI, forcing the tumble to move on slowly.
Anodontosaurus pups are playful, often breaking into short runs and chasing one another while swinging their tails in tandem. This behavior helps them develop crucial coordination skills and agile reflexes, and is actively encouraged by their parents, who can sometimes be coaxed to engage in play with them.
While they rarely intend to hurt one another, tail smacks occur between siblings - but this sparring never pushes one below half health.
By Adolescent, pups have absorbed much of their parents' behavior, and begin to wander slightly further from the group.
This is further enabled by their parents, who stop prioritizing food resources for them - even aggressing them away from food sources they are eating from to encourage independence.
Some offspring remain somewhat oblivious to these warnings - and often end up more prone to infighting and causing offence when joining another tumble, or encountering other Anodontosaurus in general.
Anodontosaurus are fully independent once they reach Sub-Adult, and usually break away from their parents and siblings to travel alone, unprompted.
Some offspring require pushing out by their parents if they linger too long.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned Anodontosaurus hatch into the world quiet and alone, and remain tucked inside their hatching site until they gather the strength to stagger to their feet at Juvenile.
Without the encouragement of a parent, offspring at Juvenile are more prone to stumbling and tripping over their feet.
They become wary of every dinosaur they encounter - even members of their own species. Pups move cautiously through the POI they were born into to seek out new food sources, but are prone to startling, and shuffling into dense shrubbery when spooked.
Particularly timid pups may resist adoption attempts from a passing tumble - calling out in fear when approached. 
These offspring can often be won over with gentle offerings of food, however.
Without the guidance of an adult, some offspring develop restricted eating habits, preferring to consume just one type of food source - which often leads to repeated bouts of illness in adulthood.
Orphans - unless adopted relatively early on - develop into more aloof and reserved adults, preferring to remain solitary or in small, tightly bonded pairs with a similar tempered individual.
Bild
Anodontosaurus are typically found in POIs that contain dense foliage or heavy rockfaces - such as more arid biomes. These largely sedentary dinosaurs tend to settle wherever food is most reliable.
They relocate between POIs only when resources are running low, or the area becomes overrun by carnivores.
These dinosaurs have strict dietary requirements that keep them constantly on the move. Anodontosaurus must consume a varied diet of fruits, roots, nuts, and flowers to avoid gastrointestinal distress.
Anodontosaurus impacted by Gastroenteritis will suffer major fatigue, loss of appetite and in rare cases even death from this illness. They become temporarily infertile while suffering with this sickness.
Despite their need for dietary variety, Anodontosaurus sometimes develop a favorite food and will actively seek it out.
Anodontosaurus juveniles prioritize eating fruits and berries above all else. These foods are richer in essential nutrients needed for their development.
Anodontosaurus under the age of adolescence do not have to adhere to the strict dietary requirements of their parents.
Anodontosaurus are highly food aggressive, and will protect any food they are currently eating from or have claimed within 2 body lengths. This eases once they and their offspring are full, and they move away.
This extends to both carnivores and herbivores.
When in an unpreferred POI, Anodontosaurus become stressed and anxious. They begrudgingly forfeit food sources when challenged, choosing instead to travel to a more comfortable biome.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Anodontosaurus sleep heavily at night based on the security of their tough upper shells. They often find comfortable places deep in foliage, or wedged in between rocks or trees to assist in their defense.
Often, an Anodontosaurus prefers to sleep on top of, or directly next to, an available food source, particularly those that they enjoy.
Anodontosaurus do not migrate at night, unless threatened by predators or unable to find a suitable food resource.
Anodontosaurus may court at night when at Dried Lake or Crag Bluffs.
 
Bild
✦ Tumble
Anodontosaurus are usually solitary and independent dinosaurs - choosing only to herd together with a limited number of members in their group, known as a tumble. They group up for mutual benefits such as nesting opportunities, travelling partners, and shared alertness to threats.
These herbivores are resilient - and are not opposed to a solitary lifestyle if that is what they find most comfortable.
It is more common for orphaned pups to prefer a solitary lifestyle to a social one, based on their upbringing.
Despite their casual and aloof nature, Anodontosaurus may form loose friendships or bonds with other members in their tumble, preferring to walk beside them, and groom them during downtime.
There is no hierarchy in a tumble. Leadership is nonexistent, with Anodontosaurus tumbles simply following behind whoever decides to move first in the group. Typically an older, more experienced Anodontosaurus will make the decision to move on first.
Anodontosaurus are protective of the food they are actively eating and only share it with their offspring under Sub-Adult, or their current nesting partner. All other Anodontosaurus - and species - are pushed away from their food source, resulting in tumbles foraging in small scatters throughout a POI.
Tumbles can be rather loud, with individuals letting out loud bellows and booming calls to communicate throughout their foraging.

✦ Solitary Behavior
Anodontosaurus fare especially well when solitary, and many individuals choose to remain alone for the majority - if not the entirety - of their lives.
They are less vocal than tumbles, keeping to just low grumbles and chuffs as they meander through the POI, foraging for food and resources.
These individuals usually move between POIs a lot less frequently than their more social peers. With less pressure for resources, most solitary Anodontosaurus do not feel the need to be constantly on the move.
They instinctively seek out dense foliage, tall trees or rugged rock faces to better shelter themselves from predators.
Solitary Anodontosaurus may still travel to Dried Lake to court and nest, driven by instinct to continue their lineage. Often, they return to a solitary life after their clutch has reached Sub-Adult.

✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Albino and melanistic Anodontosaurus face no drastic physical or social difficulties in comparison to their peers.
However, Albino Anodontosaurus have slightly softer defensive plates along their back - but are still able to defend themselves.
Albino individuals do suffer with reduced fertility levels, and are only able to produce or father a single egg per clutch.
Bild
Anodontosaurus are highly food aggressive, and will defend resources they are actively eating from and two body lengths around the resource from all other species - including other Anodontosaurus. 
They only permit their offspring below Sub-Adult and current nesting partner to share with them.
Other than defending food resources, Anodontosaurus are not aggressive with other Anodontosaurus, and tolerate them in their space.
Anodontosaurus that ignore a warning or compete over resources may be attacked by rivals, but these encounters rarely alter their overall relationships. Grudges are not held, and all individuals move on once a challenge is over.
Even within a tumble, Anodontosaurus do not intervene in these disputes, instead idly watching a confrontation play out.
Bild
Anodontosaurus are generally tolerant of all other species that keep a distance from them. Some individuals may allow other herbivores to get closer to them, while others become highly selective, and aggress species that enter within 2 body lengths of their personal space.
Intruders are first warned with deep, aggressive calls.
If ignored, they are driven off with powerful swings of their clubbed tails. These are mock attacks at first, but quickly escalate into intentional physical damage if these warnings are ignored.
Anodontosaurus challenges must follow challenge rules with 3 :threaten_call: in addition to various mock attacks.
Anodontosaurus will not approach a species to aggress them, and will only aggress species that enter their space.
Tiny species such as Compsognathus and Rhamphorhynchus are always permitted to be near them for their grooming capabilities, but may be aggressed if they become an annoyance. Halszkaraptor is generally ignored.
Carnivores and herbivores that keep a respectful distance from Anodontosaurus are always tolerated. They will only be aggressive if they encroach on their personal space.
Bild
Anodontosaurus is a resilient and tough herbivore, and is not particularly frightened by any carnivore regardless of its size or ferocity.
Anodontosaurus is defensive, and will only react if a carnivore/herbivore comes within 2 body lengths of it.
Anodontosaurus may begin with attempting to drive an opponent off with powerful swings of their clubbed tails. These begin as mock attacks first, but quickly escalate into physical attacks if these warnings are ignored.
Some Anodontosaurus may opt to hunker down, and aim their heavy clubbed tails at their approaching opponent.
Anodontosaurus physical engagements are usually based on an individuals experiences throughout their life.
Anodontosaurus parents wedge their children in front of them to protect them from the predator, enabling their back ends to swing their tails to defend them both.
Both parents aid in protecting offspring under Sub-Adult.
Parents do not aid offspring if they are 4 body lengths or more away. Offspring must run to the parent in order to be defended.
Anodontosaurus do not defend any other adults - including their current nesting partner.
 
Bild
✦ Courtship
When seeking a mate, Anodontosaurus instinctively travel to Dried Lake. This is the only time Anodontosaurus forgo the need to sleep.
Anodontosaurus become Cathemeral while courting at Dried Lake.
Courtship is not driven by either sex. Instead, it is initiated by the most confident individuals.
Courtship begins when a confident individual steps into the center of a larger gathering - or open arena type place - and bellows to summon a challenger.
Once a challenger accepts and steps forward, the two circle briefly before charging into a bout of spinning and heavy tail strikes against one another - a battle that continues until one participant falls to half health.
Males and females freely challenge one another, with no gender limits on who may compete.
This often results in a lot of same-sex pairings, though these couples do not produce biological offspring of their own.
Anodontosaurus courtship works like a pyramid, with the winner of a challenge moving on to summon another challenger. When courtship is over, pairs may form with impressive couplings producing much healthier offspring.
Only healthy Anodontosaurus are selected as potential courting partners. Those suffering with Gastroenteritis are ignored during courtship challenges.
Individuals form a temporary pairbond with the other they select, and remain with them until their offspring has reached Sub-Adult before moving on. Sometimes a bond remains strong, and a pair continue to travel together in a tumble.

✦ Nesting
Parents break away from a tumble to establish a nest, though all Anodontosaurus within a tumble will create a small cluster of nearby thickets for raising their young.
The female of the pair selects a heavily sheltered spot, and constructs a thicket around her nest using dried grasses, reeds, sticks, and other foraged materials.
The male assists her by bringing her food, and aiding in stockpiling resources for incoming hatchlings.
Parents recognize the vulnerability of newly hatched Anodontosaurus pups, and will defend the area around their thicket within 4 body lengths from predators and other herbivores.
Same sex pairings will build nests together jointly and share both nest building and foraging responsibilities. They then wait for a clutch that will never come, but are always willing to adopt abandoned Anodontosaurus during their nesting period.
✦ Parenthood
As soon as eggs begin to hatch, parents wait near the nest, tending to offspring as they emerge. Despite taking an active role in their offspring's upbringing, Anodontosaurus are still aloof as parents - and may even leave behind slow developing offspring to prioritize the needs of the wider clutch.
Anodontosaurus hatching usually happens in synchrony with the other siblings in their clutch. This increases their chances of not being abandoned and being closer in age and size with their siblings.
Pups are immobile, blind and deaf from the moment they are born, and reliant completely on their parents for food and care.
Both parents take an active role in bringing up offspring, and will provide food and resources directly to their offspring. This usually tapers off when offspring start to reach juvenile.
Parents feel no attachment to their offspring beyond ensuring the success of their lineage, and will not cater to their every cry. Their paternal instinct goes as far as providing food and safety for their offspring.
Parents are the only ones to feed and care for their offspring.
Parents will not run to protect their offspring if they are 4 body lengths or more away from them.
Parents may even choose to abandon offspring that wander too far.
Parents are not particularly affectionate to one another, instead focusing on the success of their clutch. Unsuccessful clutches may result in one or both of the parents breaking away and leaving the remaining offspring behind.
As pups reach juvenile, parents begin trying to coax them out of the nest with soft, gentle bellows - and sometimes even nudges.
Offspring that are not quick to get to their feet may be abandoned by their parents for the greater success of their offspring.
At this age, parents do not show any aggression to their offspring eating their food, and in fact prefer it so they may show their offspring how to feed themselves.
Parents only begin moving around different biomes when their offspring have reached halfway through juvenile or if their current biome is running low on resources.
When offspring reach adolescence, parents stop aiding in their feeding and  begin to push pups away from their food, encouraging independence.
This may be portrayed with threatening calls, and mock tail attacks to make their point known.
Offspring usually heed these calls and will venture off to find their own food to eat.
✦ Offspring Maturity
As Anodontosaurus pups age, their parents' obligation to them begins to fade. By the time they reach Sub-Adult, parents no longer partake in caring for them at all.
Once all of their offspring are sub-adult, parents may break away from each other - but some opt to remain together as companions; sometimes nesting again.
Most newly mature Anodontosaurus disperse on their own at this stage - but some offspring linger too long, failing to recognize the social cues to leave.
These offspring are pushed out by their parents, who become increasingly insistent on establishing their own space again.

✦ Adoption
Nesting Anodontosaurus may choose to adopt orphaned offspring they come across, provided the pup is similar in age to their clutch.
Adults attempting adoption may often coax a nervous orphan closer by offering food, or placing preferred berries and fruit within reach.
Anodontosaurus that are not nesting are far less likely to adopt stray orphans - but may choose to do so, depending on the adult's preference.
Orphaned Anodotosaurus pups may be wary of adults and often flee from them, even during gentle adoption attempts.
Bild
Anodontosaurus generally lead solitary lives, so the aging of other individuals is rarely noticed by others - even those in tumbles.
Some elders within tumbles choose to leave the group entirely, and spend their remaining years along.
Due to their considerable body weight, older individuals may develop hip dysplasia. This makes turning, moving efficiently and defending themselves increasingly difficult.

✦ Death
As an Anodontosaurus approaches the end of its life, its pace slows significantly, and it gradually loses the ability to protect itself from threats.
Although Anodontosaurus do not mourn their dead, companions or loosely bonded individuals may become withdrawn after a loss. However, this is a temporary quiet period and they recover quickly, afterwards resuming normal behavior.
Bild
Anodontosaurus have strict dietary requirements that result in illness if not adhered to. Anodontosaurus must consume a varied diet of different fruits, roots, nuts and flowers to be consumed in rotation to maintain their health.
Sub-adult/Adult Anodontosaurus must consume at least 2 different food types per 1 in-game day cycle.
Anodontosaurus are mostly sedentary but may travel long distances to find particularly tasty food, with particularly experienced individuals leading the way.
Anodontosaurus that do not adhere to their strict diet will suffer from a Gastroenteritis Infection (exhibited by the Gastroenteritis Infection skin on the Dynasty Morph skins mod). 
This illness will not pass until the player has eaten another food type and the skin has completely shed.
This is a mandatory portion of profile, and sick individuals must shed into this skin to demonstrate their illness.
Bild
Anodontosaurus mainly feast on fruit, roots, nuts and flowers.
Anodontosaurus require a varied diet consisting of fruits, roots, nuts, and flowers, consumed in rotation. Overconsumption of a single food type can lead to illness. (See General Behavior)
Adolescent and younger Anodontosaurus prioritize fruit over other food sources due to their high nutritional value and do not have to adhere to the strict dietary requirements for adults.
RULE EXEMPTIONS
Anodontosaurus are cathemeral while courting at Dried Lake and do not abide by 1.4 and may stay awake until courting has concluded.
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 22:27
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Anodontosaurus are Medium Diurnal Terrestrial Herbivores.
Anodontosaurus can group up to 6 sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees.
Anodontosaurus are tolerant.
Anodontosaurus may only defend themselves and their offspring below Sub-Adult.
Anodontosaurus will not flee, and will stand its ground.
Anodontosaurus are predominantly solitary, and will usually prefer a life of solitude over a group.
When Anodontosaurus do group, they form loose social groups called tumbles. These groups have no hierarchy and exist purely for mutual benefit.
Anodontosaurus are aloof and independent even to others of their own kind. This independence extends to their offspring, who must grow quickly to avoid being left behind.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 4500
Adjusted Stats:
⁨⁨
- Base armor increased to 1.5 from 1
- Health increased to 850 from 775
- Sprint speed increased
⁩⁩ 
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Predator Reaction
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?