Camptosaurus
    "Campto"
Camptosaurus are territorial herbivores that live in a large group known as a colony. Despite living in close quarters with one another, Camptosaurus are solitary, maintaining a home range that borders others’. They rarely interact with other Camptosaurus outside of courtship, nesting, and defending their territory.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: YeahokayitsEDEN
Photo: clemidity 
Profile inspired by Quokka, Wallaby, Pica and some creative liberty.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 24.02.2026 22:04
Overview
Bild
Small Nocturnal Terrestrial Herbivore
In a mixed-species herd, Camptosaurus may adapt to a more Diurnal lifestyle.
Camptosaurus form Harem Bonds.
Camptosaurus are territorial towards other Camptosaurus and claim small territories.
Camptosaurus have a Tolerant nature.
Camptosaurus may group with: Amargasaurus, Apatosaurus, Argentinosaurus, Bonapartenykus Citipati, Iguanodon, Lambeosaurus, Parasaurolophus, and Struthiomimus.
They may not defend these species, even when grouped with them.
Camptosaurus tolerate mutated individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Species include:
Albino, Melanistic, IoAR Albino
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Unlimited Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a colony.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Predator Reaction: Flighty / Defensive
Camptosaurus can have up to 1 in an engagement.
However, a male Camptosaurus may defend a female who is actively raising his offspring.
Camptosaurus flee from Achillobator and Large tier+ Carnivores.
Adolescents and below do not participate in defences, and will always choose to flee, unless cornered.

Preferred Diet
Camptosaurus prefer berries, but will eat anything available to them.
 
Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 1 hour.
Camptosaurus nest anywhere within their home range.
Camptosaurus do not form same-sex pairs.

Physical Dimorphism
This profile does have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Female Camptosaurus do not have spikes along their spine.
Suitable subspecies include: Dispar
♂️ Male Camptosaurus have spikes along their spine.
Suitable subspecies include: Conditus, Latas
Physical dimorphism for Camptosaurus is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Baby Camptosaurus, known as joeys, hatch out of their eggs blind, deaf and extremely fragile. They remain asleep in the nest for all of their hatchling stage, silent and barely moving - and most importantly, void of parental figures.
Joeys at this stage are incapable of standing; their muscles and bones having yet to fully develop. Any attempt to rush this process will prove fatal to a joey's survival and cause immediate rejection from all other Camptosaurus.
This additional period of rest allows for their bodies to finish growing - and by Juvenile, joeys are alert and aware, reacting to movement and sound. It’s at this time that mothers return to the nest to greet their young, urging them to their feet quickly and nipping if she deems their progress too slow.
Having been immobile for so long, joeys often find this process difficult, but not painful. They stumble and fall many times in short progression, trailing after their mother on unsteady feet, reacting enthusiastically to praise and affection.
Joeys follow their mothers closely, mimicking her movements and calls. They spend the majority of their youth travelling between their mother’s home range and the colony’s community grounds.
They interact with objects with great interest, performing a series of tasks to investigate the taste, smell and feel of anything within reach. Items they find favorable become carried around for short periods of time, or brought back to hoard in their mother’s home range.
In addition, joeys become incredibly fond of their newfound ability to run and hop. They participate in large games of chase, racing around an area for extended periods until exhausted, and forced to rest.
Joeys are oblivious to the social norms expected from partaking in colony life, and are incredibly friendly and playful with others. They encroach on home ranges and personal space of neighboring Camptosaurus, mistaking their aggression displays as invitations to play. These misunderstandings usually lead to brutal - but much-needed - lessons in manners.
All Camptosaurus in a colony may partake in correcting a joey's behaviour, through shoving or light nips. Dominant males are known to overstep and react more harshly, intent on displaying their dominance even to young. These frequent attacks, while alarming to watch, help joeys understand expectations from an early age.
Joeys attacked by older Camptosaurus will instantly yield, calling out in distress and returning to their mother’s side. Mothers rarely intervene in these situations, but will defend her offspring from another Camptosaurus if she feels their life is in danger.
Upon reaching Adolescence, female and male joeys begin demonstrating strong differences in social behavior and expressing a need for independence.
Female joeys begin wandering the outskirts of her mother’s home range, searching for an area free of claim. A mother will encourage this behavior, leading her daughter to various locations deemed suitable for inhabitation, and showing her how to maintain a territory. It is not uncommon for a female joey to disperse at this age, especially if she had a peaceful upbringing with little threat.
Some mothers may attempt to persuade her daughter to neighbor with her, willing to compromise some of her territory in the process. Daughters typically accept this proposal, eager to remain in close proximity.
Male joeys are quick to venture far away from their mother, and begin investigating residents with far more curiosity, demonstrated by their now purposeful encroaching and challenging of home ranges. Their ultimate goal in this is to understand the social hierarchy of residing males, determining which individuals fall under the subordinate and dominant status by their reaction.
Subordinate males are quick to submit as to maintain calm, forfeiting and pacing just outside the borders of their home range. Male joeys accept this easily, and may take a moment to investigate the territory before leaving to interrogate the next male, allowing the subordinate male to reclaim their home.
Dominant males, however, react with vicious aggression at the first show of intent, performing a series of challenging displays and calls to ward the young joey away. If their threats are not heeded and the joey enters their home range, the dominant male will rush forward and attack the joey, treating them as an intruder.
Joeys instantly retreat when they are attacked, calling out repeatedly in forfeit and rushing away from the danger, having learnt to steer clear of the male until older.
Any territories won during this phase are void, as males do not claim territory at adolescence.
Male joeys who demonstrate more submissive or meeker personalities are treated similarly to female joeys, with the mother guiding her joey to various areas suitable for claiming. However, a mother will never give up part of her territory for male offspring, and shows less preference for neighboring sons, aware that their constant bickering for hierarchy may attract unwanted attention. Instead, she may attempt to group him with other males, far from her own territory.
At Sub-Adult, mothers force their young to disperse, eager to return to her solitary nature. All joeys generally separate easily, having already made peace with the concept in their adolescence, and grown accustomed to their roles within a colony.
Female joeys make their final decision for a home range, and begin preparing the area for long-term inhabitation, with a Camptosaurus’ preference for what they deem suitable differing between individuals - though often most impacted by what their mother’s home range looked like.
For their first few days of independence, a mother and her daughter communicate in short calls from their home ranges, reassurance that eases out as the daughter grows more adjusted to solitary life. More anxious daughters may attempt to return to their mother’s home range, often bringing gifts or food as persuasion tactics, but are promptly chased out and regarded as intruders.
Male joeys leave in a similar fashion, but return to either the most desirable home range already owned by a male, or a home range owned by the most submissive male within the colony. From there, they will challenge for the territory, and if unsuccessful in obtaining it, will move onto the next best option.
Only male joeys who have already demonstrated being more submissive in their youth will partake in claiming a new home range instead of taking a current male’s over.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned joeys rarely survive on their own, often succumbing to the cold, or getting picked off by scavengers before they’re able to effectively perceive and react to threats. They remain asleep throughout the hatchling period, taking longer to gain their sight, hearing and ability to stand as they reach Juvenile, their bodies placing greater focus on staying warm rather than developing.
Orphans continue waiting aimlessly in the same spot they awoke for a parent to come to them, scanning the horizon for any sign of movement or activity, and ignoring hunger, thirst and sometimes sleep for as long as they can manage.
Joeys who have waited a prolonged time with no sign of parents in sight eventually stand by themselves, urged on by hunger or thirst, having accepted that no one is coming. These joeys grow up cautious and fearful of all others, ready to bolt at any given moment, and take longer to seek out colony grounds. They no longer imprint after this stage.
Other joeys who are more fortunate perk up at the first sight, or sound, of another creature nearby, confident they’d just located their missing parent. They rush to stand on unsteady legs, stumbling and falling as they make their way to them, calling out to draw attention to their location, and nuzzling up with the species as soon as they’re in reach.
If tolerated, Camptosaurus will follow and learn from this species for a majority of their lifetime, mimicking their behavior and mannerisms, but maintain their instinctual curiosity towards the world around them. Rejection leads to fleeing, though the Camptosaurus may imprint on a number of species, intent on finding their parent.
Upon reaching maturity at Sub-Adult, Camptosaurus became increasingly adverse and aware of others, their solitary and territorial instincts overwhelming prior connections.
Joeys who previously imprinted on carnivores will flee upon this change, their fear overcoming any prior trust they’d placed in their parent figure.
Meanwhile, those who grew with a herbivore parental figure are also incredibly prone to dispersal, though this process is usually slower, with the Camptosaurus taking several days to conform to their instincts.
Camptosaurus may rarely choose to continue trailing after their herbivore even after reaching maturity. They begin a lifestyle of simply co-existing, no longer showing additional tolerance or affection to their parent or others, similar to how Camptosaurus act within a colony. They do not alert to threats, and exhibit increasingly aggressive behavior around their personal space - behaviors that may eventually cause the herbivore to no longer tolerate them.
Camptosaurus who do disperse spend a majority of their day wandering coastlines, searching for signs of others. If, after several attempts, they have yet to come across a pre-existing colony, a Camptosaurus will instead choose to settle down and begin their own.
Upon integrating themselves into a colony, both genders experience great difficulty in conforming, lacking the experience to understand the concept of home ranges or hierarchies. They are treated similarly to joeys, corrected by the whole colony as they grow to understand what’s expected of them.
Bild
Camptosaurus are a docile species that spend a majority of their time alone, interacting with others only briefly to maintain loose friendships or for courting purposes.
While not necessarily social, neighboring Camptosaurus do check on each other with short calls throughout the day. Though these calls may sound nonsensical to other species, Camptosaurus grow to recognize the differences in tone and length, supplying bits of information between themselves.
Camptosaurus are susceptible to forming grudges against other Camptosaurus, and rarely, other species. These grudges can come about for any reason, but typically occur between rivalling males, or females who have felt wronged by a male in the past.
They are incredibly curious, spending a great deal of time inspecting, studying and playing with new objects; particularly well-received items are often brought back to their home range, stored around their nest.
Their curious nature extends to other species too, who they take great interest in watching from a distance. Species regarded as especially captivating may be followed for a short distance, with the Camptosaurus mimicking their behavior and calls to further entertain themselves. Aggression, however, quickly dulls a Camptosaurus curiosity.
In addition, Camptosaurus have an excellent memory. They are able to recall dangerous or favored locations, distinct sounds and the faces of other Camptosaurus. Due to this, it can be common for an individual to develop a life-long grudge against locations or other Camptosaurus who have wronged them in the past.
Unlike other species, Camptosaurus lacks the size and strength to stand against predators, easily overpowered when caught by surprise. Instead, equipped with quick reflexes and a strong resolve for self-preservation, Camptosaurus use their powerful back legs to ensure a nimble, silent escape.
Camptosaurus have a natural love for warmth, spending large portions of their day sunbathing and playing in the sun. The love extends to their preferences in habitat, with coastal, beach areas being by far their favourite.
Rain, on the other hand, is strongly disliked by Camptosaurus, with many retreating into cover at the first drop, eager to stay out the cold. In a similar fashion, many Camptosaurus refuse to court and nest in the Rainy Season, aware that having young means making extra unnecessary trips during rainy weather.
✦ Downtime Behavior
During the Dry Season, where hot weather is common, Camptosaurus prefer to flock to the beaches during the day, with a whole colony often collecting in the same general area. They create mound-like holes in the warm sand, and nestle into them, using their large tails to stir up sand onto their back and limbs.
Camptosaurus enter a deep state of relaxation at this time, and grow disgruntled if their resting space becomes shaded, rising with grumbling snorts and repositioning themselves back into the sun’s rays.
They pass through phases of sleep and wakefulness during this time. Mothers in particular often wake to look for their joeys, who can often be found investigating the ocean and its various treasures, or disturbing other sleeping Camptosaurus.
Dominant males may lightly bully subordinate males during this time by attempting to steal their sleeping spot. If unsuccessful, these males do not escalate these situations into fights, saving their displeasure for the night time.
During the Rainy Season, all Camptosaurus sleep within their home ranges, often built to protect them against the rain and cold. If a Camptosaurus is without a territory, they will find a bush or cave to sleep in temporarily.
They are awake less often during these times, disgruntled by the weather, their moods soured. Moments awake are used to be on alert for distant dangers, muffled now by frequent storms.
Joeys share this distaste, and often stay huddled with their mother in her nest. They chatter and bicker among themselves, restless and fidgety, much to their mother’s annoyance.
Bild
✦ Colony
Camptosaurus live in large groups known as colonies, occupying 1 POI known as the colony ground. These colonies are loosely maintained, and Camptosaurus are free to come and go as they please.
The area regarded as the primary food and water spot within the POI is known as the community ground. Community grounds act as a social, neutral space for all residing Camptosaurus, where Camptosaurus come to sunbathe and loosely interact with each other. It also acts as the courting ground and an area where offspring are brought to be first introduced to the colony.
Within the colony ground, each Camptosaurus claims a small territory, known as a home range. This claim is often a desirable cave, clearing, foliage or area around one’s nest, which they defend aggressively from other intruding Camptosaurus. These territories are typically close to the community ground.
Territories are maintained and decorated to signify its claim. Camptosaurus regularly patrol the edges of their home-range, rubbing against trees, rocks, or foliage to mark its borders, and are known for plucking overgrown vegetation, or shoving undesirable items out of their territory.
Camptosaurus take great care in ensuring their home-range, and their nest in particular, are tidy and beautifully decorated, as these efforts signify a keen eye and a healthy Camptosaurus that is able to maintain constant upkeep.
These claims never include large water sources or berry bushes, and any Camptosaurus found attempting to claim either will be shunned, with repeat offenders getting chased out by the whole colony.
A Camptosaurus preference for the size of the claim will vary between individuals, depending on their nature and tolerance of others. Regardless, these territories never exceed 5bdl of distance, which can cause large caves and clearing to be claimed by multiple Camptosaurus.
Home ranges can be challenged by other Camptosaurus, though these challenges are far more frequent between males than females.
Male Camptosaurus within a colony live under a hierarchy, built up of dominant and subordinate figures. This rank determines their rights to the most desirable home ranges, to females, and security to food and water during harsher periods.
Dominant males are aggressive to other males, centering their lives around capturing the interest of females within the colony and maintaining their place in the hierarchy. They earn their position through frequent challenging and bullying of other males.
These challenges are most often for desirable home ranges owned by other males, but challenges may arise out of bullying behaviour too.
A male does not necessarily have to come out as victorious to earn or maintain the dominant status, simply portraying these aggressive behaviours are enough to indicate it. Frequent losses will place the male lower on the hierarchy, but they still rank above subordinate males.
Subordinate males are tolerant towards other males, valuing the safety of residing in a colony as opposed to placing focus on courtship and nesting. These males still defend themselves against dominant males, but do so infrequently, so as to keep attention away from themselves.
They may still court and nest, but their meek nature means they often get overlooked in the process, acting as stepping stones for a dominant male’s display instead.
Female Camptosaurus live largely in peace with everyone. They are not affected by male hierarchies, except when it comes to courting, and have no hierarchy between themselves and other females.
All Camptosaurus may challenge each other for a home range, but males often avoid challenging females to avoid losing favour during courtship. Males that continuously act aggressive towards females may be noticed by the dominant males, who will in turn bully the offending male in hopes of earning favour next time the females seek a nesting partner.
✦ Solitary Behavior
Outside of colony grounds, with no home ranges or hierarchies to maintain, Camptosaurus give very little attention to others of their kind, past a brief inspection. Even males lose their need for dominance, quickly becoming aware that females pay no mind to courtship without a claimed home range to nest in.
If during this time, a Camptosaurus finds interest in joining a colony, they may seek out and invite other lone Camptosaurus in the area on their journey, valuing safety in numbers.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Mutated individuals do not receive any additional attention.
 
Bild
Camptosaurus are a typically peaceful species, but are not opposed to aggressive behavior in specific instances. These occurrences are far more common between males than females, but are never fatal between either party.
A Camptosaurus that causes the death of another is immediately shunned and exiled from the colony, with all witnessing Camptosaurus remembering this individual for life.
If the offending Camptosaurus is ever found within another colony by a witnessing Camptosaurus, they will be shunned and exiled from that colony too.
Uniquely, stretching is regarded as threatening behaviour between Camptosaurus. Rising to their full height shows off an individual’s scars and creates the illusion of size, typically used to show displeasure or annoyance at an individual or situation before escalating to true aggression.
Most challenges and disputes are met with this threat display before all else.

✦ Male Bullying
Dominant males may bully other males to maintain their position in the hierarchy. These acts come about for a variety of reasons, with many being ultimately unimportant and petty.
Bullying other males for eating before them, for being too close to a female, or for sunbathing in a favored spot are all common occurrences, though a Camptosaurus may be bullied for any reason, as long as the intent is clear.
Bullying is done by shoving, getting in the personal space of, or nipping at another male to provoke them.
Subordinate males typically react to bullying by submitting and moving away from whatever has upset a dominant male. Subordinate males who frequently submit are far less likely to be picked on by dominant males over time.
Dominant males - and some subordinate males - may opt to react with aggression, shoving and nipping to showcase their refusal to back down. This reaction causes the bullying to escalate into a fight.
These fights end at half health, and both Camptosaurus respect the challenge’s outcome, regardless of if they’re the victor or loser.
✦ Home Range Challenges
Home range challenges and defences are a common occurrence within colonies, given their solitary and territorial nature towards each other.
Camptosaurus looking to take-over another home range will intrude into it within the owner’s sights. If the owner isn’t around, the intruding Camptosaurus will wait for their return to the home range.
Camptosaurus who spot an intruder within their home range show immediate disapproval, stretching and calling aggressively. They approach the intruder with slow steps, assessing their intention and status.
If the intruder shows no signs of respecting their territory, and has yet to challenge, the residing Camptosaurus will broadcast and issue 3 aggressive calls, officially beginning a challenge for the home range.
These fights are done head-on, with both Camptosaurus rushing forward and attacking their opponent’s face and neck with vicious bites.
Fights may continue until half health, or until one side forfeits. Forfeiting is done by hopping away from the other, and fear-calling in defeat.
The winning Camptosaurus claims the home range, and cannot be rechallenged by the same Camptosaurus for 30 minutes. The winning Camptosaurus may freely leave their home range, as long as they do not challenge for another territory within 30 minutes.
Any Camptosaurus that turns their back on their opponent - or attempts to reposition by running away - automatically forfeit, as these are seen as signs of submission and defeat.
Bild
When travelling with other species, a Camptosaurus may choose to conform to a more diurnal routine. The process can take days to truly come into effect, with the Camptosaurus becoming lethargic during this period of change.
If the Camptosaurus returns to a Camptosaurus only group, they will naturally return to a nocturnal lifestyle.
Camptosaurus tolerate other species within their colony ground, and do not defend home ranges from them, understanding any intruders are only there temporarily.
However, they may still defend a home range against other species if they have live young within the nest, at their own risk.
Camptosaurus do not challenge or accept challenges from other species for food and water, even when resources are limited. They will immediately forfeit and wait for the species to move along before returning to assess the damage.
If another species passes through a colony ground, and eliminates all resources within the area, a colony can make the united decision in moving to a new colony ground, in a migration led by the dominant males.
Camptosaurus follow the crowd in these circumstances, and will rarely stay behind if a majority of the colony choose to migrate.
Camptosaurus who have yet to settle into a colony may choose to follow herds of herbivores instead. However, they treat them with the same amount of tolerance as they would with other Camptosaurus.
Camptosaurus in particular prefer herding with Iguanodon, Lambeosaurus and Parasaurolophus. These hadrosaurs often attract the most attention, due to their large size, giving Camptosaurus the chance to flee danger when they are not the focus of a hunt.
In addition, these species do alert each other of danger, a trait Camptosaurus do not share with them. Camptosaurus make the most of these warnings, instantly rising to their feet to observe their surroundings. Camptosaurus never flee a situation without confirming the danger themselves, even if alerted by other species.
Camptosaurus interact minimally with these species, even when grouped with them. They tolerate them within the vicinity, but are quick to move away if their personal space is invaded or if one becomes overly friendly with them.
Some Camptosaurus may still express instinctual territorial behaviours around their sleeping spots during this time too, and may go as far as aggressing another species for it. However, Camptosaurus  will back down if the aggression is returned, their disdain forming into a harmless grudge over time.
Camptosaurus do not alert to threats, or defend other species under any circumstances.
Camptosaurus do not adopt babies of a different species, and will ignore the presence of any that come by.
Camptosaurus may accept grooming efforts from all species, at their own risk and preference.
 
Bild
Camptosaurus fear Large+ Carnivores, and Achillobator, and always flee from these predators.
Camptosaurus are an incredibly observant species, and take their time to analyze a situation before reacting to it.
A displaced sound, or an unfamiliar scent, is enough reason for a Camptosaurus to become alert, with their first reaction being to rise to their hind legs and scan their surroundings. They sniff the air and listen out for further noise, their bodies tense and ready to bolt at the first sign of movement.
Camptosaurus come with a fundamental flaw, in which their sight is entirely reliant on motion. A stationary, well camouflaged threat will go completely unnoticed, leaving Camptosaurus vulnerable to ambushing predators.
Achillobator are treated with extreme caution for this reason, regarded as one of the species that are able to quickly seek out and exploit a Camptosaurus disadvantage.Their common alliance with the nimble Latenavenatrix leaves Camptosaurus in a great disadvantage, given their ambushing hunting strategy.
If a threat isn’t found, or otherwise deemed as harmless, a Camptosaurus will opt to ignore it, but stay on alert for further changes in the environment.
If attacked, or spooked by something, Camptosaurus first reaction is to flee, in hopes of outpacing the danger.
They may instinctively yelp out in pain when attacked, but do not otherwise alert to danger, focused on a silent escape. Camptosaurus hope to achieve increased survival chances through this method, by drawing less attention to themselves, and often succeeding, with predators setting their sights on an unsuspecting target instead.
If a Camptosaurus opts to defend itself instead of fleeing, sometimes seen when encountering small numbers of tiny and small tier, they will receive no defenders in this. This includes offspring, who will not be protected by their mothers regardless of circumstances. Offspring are expected to flee at the first sign of danger.
The only exception to this is a father defending a female who is actively raising his young. The father will only defend the female and ignore his offspring during the engagement. Offspring must be already hatched, and below Sub-Adult for this exception to be valid.
Males do not extend this protective behavior to Large+ carnivores or Achillobator, and will still flee from them.
Bild
✦ Courtship
Camptosaurus courting is led by the males, but ultimately a female’s choice. The process lasts a whole night cycle, or until all interested females have been courted.
The process begins with a male making himself known and heard at the community grounds, with bellowing broadcasts and dramatic sprints, he works to lure out the residing Camptosaurus into acting as an audience.
This interaction causes a chain reaction within the colony, with other males rushing forward to begin their own displays to quickly catch the audience’s attention.
Females watch from the sidelines quietly, moving around the clearing as they dictate which male they find most promising at any given time. Those unable to or uninterested in partaking like to spectate, but are careful to keep their distance as to avoid getting in the way of participating males.
Subordinate males are very passive with their courting, and do not take part in typical courtship challenges like the dominant males do. Instead, their courtship consists of enticing a female by playing into their curious nature.
A pretty flower, a chunk of crystal, a smooth clam, are all items that may be laid out in front of a female, encouraging her closer with soft calls and short sprints around the object. Few females find this sort of display acceptable, and subordinate males are typically ignored, especially if dominant males are present.
Dominant males are typically the focus, with their loud and aggressive displays drawing in the most amount of attention from females. These males quickly turn to another male and begin a courtship challenge, aggressively calling at the male and stretching their bodies up in a threat display.
Subordinate males never accept these challenges during courtship, and quickly crouch in submission, calling out fearfully, allowing for the dominant male to relish in his easily earned victory. They slip away to continue their passive courtship a distance away once the dominant male has diverted his attention.
If this other male is also a dominant male, they will mimic the aggression and stretching, attempting to appear larger than the other, and showing off any scars they have accumulated. The two circle each other, calling loudly and repeating their threat displays. The goal here is to deter the other male away before it escalates to a physical fight.
If neither male backs down after a period of display, the two rush in to meet in the middle. Rising to their hind legs, they work quickly in delivering brutal bites to their opponent’s neck and face, and shoving in an effort to knock the other off balance. Males do not turn their back or run away from each other during these fights, as this is seen as a sign of weakness, with this action causing them to instantly lose favour with the females.
This challenge ends at half-health, with the losing male forfeiting by turning their back on the opponent and fear calling. They retreat a short distance away to shortly recover and mourn their loss. At this time, they may also take a moment to evaluate the courting males, purposefully picking out a subordinate male to regain favour quickly with the crowd.
The winning Camptosaurus will gloat his victory, broadcasting after the fleeing males and stretching to show off his fresh scars to the audience. He too will take a moment while strutting to regain his breath, before finding his next opponent and beginning the process again.
Once a female has settled on the male she likes the most, she will move towards him slowly, assessing his vigilance by how quickly he takes notice of her. Having gained his attention, she rises into a stretch, keeping her focus on the male.
Though stretching is seen as aggression between Camptosaurus, in the context of courtship, the female is sizing the male up, looking for signs of confidence and intelligence in his response.
At this stage, approaching non-dimorphic females are often mistaken for challenging males, leading to immediate aggression, or immediate fear from a subordinate male. This aggression will offend the female, and she will reject any further attempts from that male, opting to court someone else.
A male interested in the female will replicate this action, stretching to show off his form. The female will circle the male a few times, inspecting his previous and new scars, assessing his pattern, and judging his age and experience.
If she finds him acceptable, she will call affectionately at him, accepting him as a worthy mate. The male will escort the female to the edges of the community ground, where she will wait for him until he has completed courtship.
Other females successfully courted with the same male will join her, forming loose friendships with each other during this short period of interaction.
✦ Nesting
Females retreat to their home range after courtship and begin securing her territory for offspring. They stock the surrounding area, and especially the nest, with strong-smelling flowers, mushrooms, and foliage; a process that helps mask the smell of newborn offspring and avoid unnecessary attention from lurking predators.
The male will assist during this time by stockpiling the nest with food for the offspring, bringing back heaps of berries and other soft foods that are easy to consume.
This task can be extremely daunting for a Camptosaurus who has courted multiple females. Failing to support a female during this time can result in this female rejecting him next season, or if she feels particularly uncared for, she may hold a grudge for life. As such, males work tirelessly to ensure all courted females are satisfied.
Past this brief period of collaboration, courted individuals do not interact with each other more than necessary. Once the male has completed his role, the two do not linger near each other, and the male will no longer be tolerated in the female’s home range.
Males largely return to ensuring the male hierarchy has not transformed in his absence. He may still watch over his courted female from a distance, ready to defend her from predators if needed, but show little interest in her and her offspring aside from this.
✦ Parenthood
Once all her eggs have hatched, the mother will leave her home range completely, spending her days and nights at the community ground instead, where she may bond with other nesting females going through the same process.
This action is done to ensure predators do not track her scent to her vulnerable young. Some mothers may still risk returning at brief intervals to ensure their young are alive and to ensure the surrounding area is still secure.
Mothers return to her offspring once they reach Juvenile, a stage in which they have gained the ability to see, hear and walk. She works quickly in encouraging her young to their feet, often through shoving and impatient nipping.
Mothers are incredibly anxious about their surroundings during this process, frequently pausing to survey the environment before returning to the task at hand. Joeys that take too long to stand and walk are at risk of being abandoned, seen as sickly.
Joeys are awarded with immediate affection and praise upon getting on their feet, and once they’ve mastered their first steps, mothers will lead her offspring to the community grounds. There, they will gain access to food and water, and be introduced to other Camptosaurus.
Mothers aren’t particularly involved in a joey's social development at this stage. She allows for her offspring to wander off and explore, to learn and experience situations for themselves, calling them back to her side only when they wander out of sight. She rarely intervenes in conflicts between her joey and other Camptosaurus, and only steps in if she feels others are being too harsh.
If her offspring are hunted, mothers will not defend them and flee the area instead, valuing her own safety and expecting her offspring to do the same.
As joeys age into adolescence, mothers become more involved with their daughters, and less so with their sons.
Daughters are prioritized, with their increased independence, mothers hurry in showcasing various locations suited for her daughter to claim her own home range in.
In addition, mothers show her daughters how to properly maintain a home range. These techniques and expectations vary between families, but lessons in clearing and trampling overgrown vegetation, gathering materials suited for nests, and scent-marking the territory are common.
If space allows it, mothers often encourage daughters to claim a home range next to theirs, willing to give up part of her territory in the process.
Over the seasons, a female Camptosaurus may accumulate a mass of closely related neighbours, daughters from previous clutches. Though solitary, kinship is recognized, and mothers in particular often remember the faces of their offspring even years after separation.
Male adolescent joeys are still cared for, and tolerated in their mother’s home range, but receive far less attention overall. Their growing interest in the male hierarchy brings unnecessary noise and conflict, aspects that the female Camptosaurus will prefer to avoid.
On occasion, a male joey may display subordinate behaviour from an early age, lacking an interest in challenging and provoking other males. In these instances, a mother will begrudgingly treat him with the same expectations as a daughter, showcasing home ranges and lessons in maintaining a territory.
However, mothers never give up their territory for a son, and typically try to encourage him to neighbour other males, further away from her own home range.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Once offspring reach sub-adult, they are no longer tolerated in the mother’s home range, and forced to disperse, if they haven’t already. This process is typically easy and stress-free, with joeys having already grown confident in their adult roles.
Female Camptosaurus may find that some daughters attempt to bribe their way back into her home range with gifts. Mothers do not tolerate this behaviour, and promptly chase the female off once again, treating them as an intruder each time.
Though Camptosaurus may nest again after this period, many choose to wait until the next season, recovering from the experience by enjoying a solitary lifestyle once more.

✦ Adoption
Female Camptosaurus may adopt, if they have similarly aged young with them. Adopted offspring are treated the same as biological offspring, receiving no additional attention.
Orphaned joeys are inspected for signs of sickness or parasites that may endanger a female’s current young before all else. If the joey passes this brief inspection, and the female is open to adoption, she’ll call out affectionately to invite the joey in joining her current young.
Male Camptosaurus, uninterested females and females without offspring will opt to ignore the orphaned joey after the inspection period. The orphaned joey may attempt to follow these Camptosaurus to learn from a distance, usually tolerated.
Orphaned joeys will be treated as an intruder if they attempt to enter the home range of a Camptosaurus who has not adopted them, and do not receive protection from anyone if attacked for it.
Bild
Elderly Camptosaurus can be identified by their dull, pale colouring and unkept appearance. Their scales are often damaged and flakey due to prolonged sun exposure, with some Camptosaurus bearing scars from previous encounters with predators. Players must change their skin to resemble aging once they’re reached elder status.
Camptosaurus typically become elder after 10 clutches.
As Camptosaurus age, their bodies grow slow, with walking, running and hopping becoming a tiring and painful task. They are slow to react to encounters and frequently experience bouts of forgetfulness, often seen pacing around the same area in a haze.
They grow increasingly agitated and frustrated as a result of these changes, snapping at other colony members easier and displaying more aggressive reactions to having their personal space invaded.
Camptosaurus lose the flee reaction, the task too strenuous for their body to continuously perform. Instead, elderly Camptosaurus freeze, becoming motionless, determined to blend in with their surroundings as their new means of survival.
Elderly Camptosaurus abandon their home ranges at this stage, instead settling in areas close to food and water, to minimize the need for travel. They no longer maintain or challenge for home ranges at this point, and previously dominant males automatically fall to subordinate status.
Elders are respected by all colony members, and they do not experience bullying or challenging behaviour. The only exception to this is a Camptosaurus protecting their home range.
Colony residents pick up on these signs of aging quickly. Though solitary by nature, concern and grief may still be showcased between individuals, especially if the elderly Camptosaurus has been a part of a colony for a long time.

✦ Death
Elderly Camptosaurus end up becoming easy meals for carnivores. Worn out by age and no longer capable of fleeing dangers, these individuals end up freezing in place, hopeful in blending in with their surroundings.
They’re incredibly committed to this new line of defence. Even as a predator approaches closer, they hold still, with this overconfidence proving fatal.
Those that attempt to flee at the last moment are too slow to escape most predators, unable to sprint for long periods, and completely incapable of hopping; they're easily caught.
In rare instances, some elderly Camptosaurus pass on peacefully, often in their sleep.
 
Bild
While able to group, Camptosaurus are inherently solitary and unsocial, they form only loose friendships with each other.
Male hierarchies are built up of dominant and subordinate figures, but rankings may be more intricate between colonies.
Bild
Camptosaurus does not alert Camptosaurus and other species to dangers and threats; this is a mandatory behaviour.
Challenges and fights do not go below half health.
RULE EXEMPTIONS
Camptosaurus do not have to stay within a home range for 30 minutes after winning a territory challenge. 7.2.4.3)
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 24.02.2026 22:11
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Camptosaurus are Small Nocturnal Terrestrial Herbivores.
In a mixed-species herd, Camptosaurus may adapt to a more Diurnal lifestyle.
Camptosaurus can group up to unlimited sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees.
Camptosaurus are tolerant.
Camptosaurus can have up to 1 in an engagement, with the exception of male Camptosaurus defending a female raising his young.
Camptosaurus flees from Achillobator and Large tier+ Carnivores.
Camptosaurus are solitary, but live in large groups where others are tolerated for courtship opportunities.
Though territorial, Camptosaurus do not challenge or accept challenges from other species, unless defending a nesting site with live young in.
Camptosaurus have incredible memory and are able to recall locations, sounds, and even faces of other Camptosaurus. This helps them in quickly recognizing danger, especially given their motion-based eyesight puts them at a disadvantage.

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time: (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 10-20-30-30 = 90 total
Combat Weight: 1050
Adjusted Stats:
- Jump force multiplier increased
- Stamina recovery rate increased
- Subspecies adjustments removed
 
Quick Links
Top
Growing up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Predator Reaction
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?