Compsognathus
    "Compy"
Compsognathus is a tiny, meat-eating dinosaur that spends its time scurrying between POIs and scavenging from carcasses. About the size of a chicken, it is one of the smallest dinosaurs on the roster. Relying on its speed and agility to catch critters and for general defence, Compsognathus frequently follows and stalks other, larger predators for opportunities to feast on their kills. This is primarily seen with Tyrannosaurus, who look at Compsognathus fondly.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Kittyful
Includes ideas from: Red
Photo: Beadil
Profile inspired by brown and black rats and jerboas.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


2_easy_compy.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 08.08.2025 13:57
Overview
Bild
Tiny Cathermal Terrestrial Carnivore
Compsognathus form temporary pairbonds.
Compsognathus are nomadic.
Compsognathus have a tolerant nature.
Compsognathus are scavengers.
Compsognathus tolerate albino and melanistic individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Compsognathus include:
Albino, Leucistic, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Unlimited Individuals, usually consisting of 1 dominant male, several dominant females, and unlimited lower-ranking males and females.
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a swarm.

Additionally, Compsognathus may form dispersal groups consisting of unlimited individuals of Adolescent and below.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 10 Compsognathus may take part in an engagement.
Compsognathus flee from Hatzegopteryx and Quetzalcoatlus.
Compsognathus may hunt up to Small tier, but primarily scavenges.  Compsognathus will target unattended hatchlings & juveniles, Dryosaurus, Psittacosaurus, and death-scarred individuals of any tier.
Solo Adolescent Compsognathus do not hunt other species.
When in dispersal group: 2-10 Adolescent Compsognathus may attempt to hunt up to Small tier, but primarily scavenges.

Preferred Prey/Diet
Compsognathus primarily scavenges, but may hunt up to Small tier.
When hunting, Compsognathus firstly target unattended babies, Dryosaurus, Psittacosaurus and death-scarred individuals of any tier.
Compsognathus may feed from the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects.
Adolescent Compsognathus can assist with their parents’ hunts, up to the limit of 10.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 1 🥚﻿ per 1 hour.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 3 🥚﻿ per 1 hour.
Compsognathus nest in open areas, usually under a bush or some vague coverage. Their nests are constructed from rocks, reeds and roots.

Physical Dimorphism
Compsognathus have color dimorphism.
This profile does have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Females have more uniform and muted colors.
♂️ Males tend to have brighter, flashier colors.
Physical dimorphism for Compsognathus is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 08.08.2025 14:08
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Compsognathus offspring, known as chicks, often hatch in large numbers from typically poorly constructed nests. These nests are usually situated under little foliage, in an open environment.
Born fully equipped for survival, chicks are on their feet immediately, quickly taking to following the adults around them.
They instinctively copy older individuals, mimicking their movements and behaviors, much to the older Compsognathus' annoyance.
Both mothers and fathers check up on their chicks, encouraging them towards food and occasionally showing parental affection.
Chicks have keen survival instincts - while they are extremely curious about the world around them, they are quick to scatter into the undergrowth at sudden noises, movements, or any other perceived threats.
Chicks that start to fall behind in growth or appear sickly end up neglected by their parents, and are eventually pushed to the outer ring of the swarm's social circle.
Chicks begin to show their intelligence and their ability to work together around adolescence, when they begin to collaborate on hunts against critters. While chicks are not permitted to join hunts against other dinosaurs until they are full grown, they take great delight and pride in taking down a critter, and will screech happily to alert all nearby of their success, before feeding from the corpse.
As a swarm rarely kicks out any of their members, chicks that age into adulthood are permitted to stay. They start at the bottom of the social ladder, and must navigate their way up the dynamics of the swarm.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned chicks lack some of the boldness of those raised with parents or in a swarm. They spend their time darting between the undergrowth and make much less noise than those raised in a brood.
Orphans will eagerly rush to any older Compsognathus that they come across, hoping to be adopted and receive some safety amongst numbers.
Orphaned Compsognathus chicks that mature into adults often prefer to stay solitary and tag along behind different carnivores, rather than forming groups with their own kind.
Orphaned Compsognathus enjoy following Tyrannosaurus, Giganotosaurus, and Torvosaurus and will sometimes join up with a few other Compsognathus to form a small group.
Bild
Compsognathus are highly social dinosaurs, and live in well organized swarms that have a hierarchy between members.
Swarms are ruled by a dominant male, who maintains general order amongst the group and chooses the direction in which they travel, and several dominant females, who like to take charge when it comes to courting and nesting.
Compsognathus work together to secure resources and track down larger carnivores that are worth following. The dominant male leads the rest of the swarm towards their next migration point and determines whether the swarm should pursue a carnivore or not.
Compsognathus are extremely vocal, using an array of squeaks, chirps and squawks to alert the rest of the swarm to danger or potential food opportunities.
Compsognathus may “choose” a particular carnivore to follow for their entire life. They are not possessive over these carnivores, but they follow them relentlessly and tend to them, alerting if they detect threats and screeching joyfully if they see a potential target. 
Intelligent carnivores may heed their Compsognathus companions and tune in to their calls to listen out for prey. Compsognathus does not intentionally lead carnivores to prey, but is noisy and excited about creatures it discovers.
Sometimes, a Compsognathus can accidentally alert their chosen carnivore to a dangerous situation rather than suitable prey. Compsognathus is not always the smartest when it comes to sizing up prey, and will squeak and call out just about anything it sees.
Compsognathus are fairly intelligent for their size, and have high emotional understanding. If a chosen carnivore migrates through POIs, a Compsognathus will follow along dutifully, trusting their carnivore to provide them with scavenging opportunities.
With their high emotional intelligence, Compsognathus will not hunt other Compsognathus. 
However, in the case that a member of their swarm dies, they may choose to eat from the body. The little scavengers are known to be highly resourceful, but their intelligence gives them a moment of pause to pay respect to their fallen member before gratefully consuming the meat left behind.
Compsognathus do not attempt to hunt babies of their chosen carnivores. If their chosen carnivore dies, they may eat from the body, similarly to how they feed from their own species. They will stay close by the body and will fiercely attempt to defend it. These relationships between hunter and scavenger will last the Compsognathus’s whole life in most circumstances, and often end in the Compsognathus passing peacefully alongside their larger friend.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Compsognathus are nearly constantly on the move, only requiring several brief naps throughout the day to keep their energy up.
On colder days, Compsognathus are seen moving more sluggishly and napping more often.
Compsognathus enjoy napping close to their swarm or nearby carnivore companions. They often take their most substantial naps immediately after feeding in order to help their tiny bodies digest.
 
Bild
✦ Swarm
A Compsognathus swarm’s social structure is based upon a dominance hierarchy, where the dominant male and several dominant females hold the most control within the swarm, dictating access to food, nesting spots, and the direction of where the swarm should go.
Both male and female lower ranking individuals are expected to defer to the dominant members, or face being denied food when they happen upon corpses.
Compsognathus engage in small but loud spats to settle disputes and establish dominance over one another. Positions within the swarm can change frequently as a result of these fights - though typically the dominant male and females tend to be better at winning them and thus maintaining their position.
Despite these small bickering matches, Compsognathus form close bonds through the entirety of their lives. These bonds are especially prominent amongst siblings, and parents with their children.
Compsognathus are known to form different vocalization patterns in order to communicate with non-Compsognathus friends - while these take nearly their entire lives to develop, and vary from friendship to friendship - Compsognathus's individual vocalizations are always unique.
✦ Shunning
Compsognathus are generally tolerant of all other Compsognathus - however, if a Compsognathus is particularly aggressive or sickly, it may be shunned.
Compsognathus ignore and push other Compsognathus they are shunning to the outer edges of the swarm. Re-entering the main area, or approaching nests, will result in the shunned Compsognathus being aggressed.
Compsognathus, while typically affectionate and friendly, show no such kindness towards shunned Compsognathus, instead turning their back and running away.
Compsognathus do not attempt to hunt or kill other Compsognathus.
✦ Solitary Behavior
Solitary Compsognathus enjoy inciting play with other dinosaurs, screeching from a distance and darting away before their target can track the noise. While this is more often than not annoying to other dinosaurs, Compsognathus are blissfully unaware, repeating it over and over until eventually aggressed.
Solitary Compsognathus struggle to survive on their own, and seek out a large carnivorous friend to follow, relying on it to provide scavenging opportunities for them - or call out for others of their own kind to form a swarm with. 
Solitary Compsognathus are very vocal and call out frequently for a companion. They keep a wide berth from any herbivores (unless it is a Citipati, who are known to “adopt” Compsognathus and protect them) and will curiously approach any carnivore.
When on their own, Compsognathus relies mainly on bones, rotting corpses, and stealing chunks from other predators’ kills.
Solitary Compsognathus enjoy finding high perches and comfortable places to sleep, out of the way of larger dinosaurs that may trample them accidentally.
✦ Mutation Behavior
Melanistic, Leucistic Albino Compsognathus are tolerated, however, males with these mutations will struggle to court.
Albino Compsognathus are significantly weaker than their non-albino counterparts, and struggle with keeping up with swarms and when hunting. With reduced stamina, and a sensitivity to sunlight, albino Compsognathus are mainly active around dusk, nighttime, and dawn.
Albino Compsognathus are at an increased risk to aggressive critters, especially when solitary. Without the protection of a swarm, their only hope of escaping such a threat is to flee to a place where the critter cannot follow them.
Melanistic Compsognathus have no such disadvantages, but are considered female due to their dull coloration.
Leucistic Comspognathus fare better than Albinos, with no known health conditions faced.
Bild
Compsognathus prioritize vocal aggression rather than physical aggression. Screeching matches are common, with the more dominant individuals showing their displeasure at every opportunity.
The dominant male and dominant females tend to be the most aggressive individuals within the swarm. They win their position by bullying the rest of the group, and claim the best nesting sites and first choice of meat because of this. The lowest ranking members may even end up being denied food by the rest of the swarm - especially if they are sickly, or upset the dominant members one too many times.
Dominance battles are quick and rarely dangerous. Compsognathus will take slow, considered steps towards their opponent before snapping and kicking at them until one of them flees. The first to run is considered to be the loser - though all Compsognathus will flee before their health gets too low (before they go below half health).
Bild
Compsognathus may “choose” any carnivore, or group of carnivores, to follow for the entirety of their lives. This behavior only persists with species that tolerate them, and are most common with Giganotosaurus and Tyrannosaurus. It never occurs with Quetzalcoatlus or Hatzegopteryx.
They seek both protection and scavenging opportunities from their chosen carnivores, and often develop vocalization patterns unique to themselves and their chosen carnivore.
Compsognathus will often help these carnivores nest. However, this does mean bringing any item that a Compsognathus believes is helpful, rather than what is actually needed for construction of the nest!
Solitary Compsognathus are tolerant to other Compsognathus around their chosen carnivore(s) but may nip at other scavengers.
A solitary Compsognathus may nip other scavengers up to 3 times without it being considered the start of an engagement.
The Compsognathus must be following their chosen carnivore in order to display their unwillingness to share. If not following their carnivore and solitary, they do not display this behavior.
Compsognathus never take part in hunts or challenges alongside their chosen carnivore, and instead quickly move to a place to watch or hide - in order to avoid becoming collateral damage.
Compsognathus within a swarm will show open curiosity towards herbivores of Medium tier and above, but never get close unless actively attempting to hunt an unattended baby. 
If aggressed by these herbivores, they always opt to flee.
Compsognathus fear Quetzalcoatlus and Hatzegopteryx, and scatter at the sight of one, always immediately attempting to find bushes or dens to hide in.
Compsognathus never hunt offspring or adoptees of their chosen carnivore, and instead understand that they belong to their chosen carnivore.
Other hatchlings and juveniles of the same species may still be targeted - as long as they have no connection to their chosen carnivore.
 
Bild
Compsognathus rarely hunt and prefer to scavenge or catch easy prey, such as critters. They are highly opportunistic, however, and will not turn down an opportunity to hunt if one presents itself.
They will only hunt Small tier species, unattended hatchling or juveniles of any tier, or death-scarred individuals of any tier.
Up to 10 Compsognathus may form a hunting party.  They are highly strategic and intelligent, working together to bring down the prey.
A common Compsognathus tactic is to attempt to lead a baby away from an attentive herd or parent by squeaking, jumping, and otherwise being a curiosity. When the baby has been led far enough from their group, other Compsognathus surge in, taking advantage of a parent’s lapse in attention in order to claim a meal.
Compsognathus use latching onto prey as a form of defence. Their quick movements and ability to pounce off of their targets make friendly fire a constant risk for the hunted party, which often lends itself to a Compsognathus’s advantage.
Bild
✦ Courtship
During nesting seasons, the majority of females in the swarm become receptive at the same time, enabling them to be able to raise young together.
As females come into season, they begin exhibiting a multitude of broody behaviours - each female will look for a nesting site where she will spend extended periods of time examining and tending to it. Females will gather pieces of foliage - such as roots, pinecones, or flowers - to place around her nest in a crude fashion, before sitting in it and calling out to males in the swarm.
Dominant females tend to pick the most valuable nesting sites and will bully lower ranking females away from nesting sites they wish to claim.
Males that are interested in courting and nesting, will approach the broody females slowly and call softly to them.
The dominant male almost always chooses one of the dominant females to try and court. Females of any rank will reject lower ranking males if the dominant male has not yet chosen a female, in the hopes the male will choose her.
If the approaching male is accepted by the female, she will call back affectionately, and the pair will lay eggs in the nest.
✦ Nesting
Nests are often found in open areas, sometimes near to a bush or some dense vegetation. Compsognathus prefer to nest somewhat close to each other, but not close enough to share the same nest.
✦ Parenthood
Once eggs hatch, offspring are essentially miniature adults straight away, and receive some gentle guidance from both parents. Fathers participate in child rearing as much as mothers do, and will step in to teach their offspring if an opportunity presents itself.
Parents will loosely defend their offspring from other Compsognathus if the play is deemed to be too rough, and from other dinosaurs. This defence is usually in the form of screeching angrily and loudly at the threat, before ushering their offspring in the opposite direction.
Weak and sickly offspring end up rejected by both parents, and instinctively pushed away from the majority of the swarm.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Once chicks reach Sub-Adult, they often stay within the swarm, forming close bonds with their parents and siblings.
✦ Adoption
Both male and female Compsognathus may adopt unrelated chicks at any time, even when they are not nesting themselves
Bild
Elderly Compsognathus are very rare, as most Compsognathus live short and fast paced lives.
They hold a great deal of respect amidst swarms, and while they are not the quickest when hunting, are typically allowed to feed from the bodies first.
Elderly Compsognathus only begin to lose coloration from their scales when they are nearing death; their scales fading to sickly white color (albino) within the 5 minutes of their impending death.
Elderly Compsognathus will curl up amidst their swarm or alongside their chosen carnivore to pass away quietly, listening to the squeaks and high pitched calls of the friends and family that will succeed them.
Following their death, fellow members of a swarm will give one last series of calls to celebrate their fallen friend, before respectfully consuming the corpse.
Bild
None
Bild
Compsognathus form strong bonds primarily with Tyrannosaurus, but may try to form a friendship with any larger carnivore that accepts them.
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 08.08.2025 14:30
Preferred POIs
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Compsognathus are Tiny Catheremal Terrestrial Carnivores.
Compsognathus can group up to unlimited sub/adults, unlimited offspring, and unlimited adoptees.
Compsognathus are tolerant.
Compsognathus can have up to 10 in a hunting party.
Compsognathus may hunt up to Small tier. Compsognathus will target unattended hatchlings & juveniles, Dryosaurus, Psittacosaurus, and death-scarred individuals of any tier. Compsognathus may scavenge, and will do so before attempting to hunt.
Compsognathus enjoy following large carnivores and will spend nearly their entire lives forming a unique “relationship” with a trusted carnivore. These relationships are most often formed with Giganotosaurus and Tyrannosaurus.
Swarms are led by 1 dominant male and several dominant females. Compsognathus may challenge each other for dominance within a swarm.
Compsognathus are highly affectionate and extremely playful, and will form long-lasting bonds within their lifetimes.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes):  10-10-20-20 = 60 total
Combat Weight: 400
Adjusted Stats: none
 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 01:26
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Terminology
Return to directory?