Achillobator
    "Achillo"
Achillobator, a large dromeosaurid theropod, is a nocturnal species, roaming the biomes of Gondwa and Riparia. Often accompanied by companion Latenivenatrix, Achillobator form strong pairbonds that often take entire lifetimes. Quiet, calm, and highly intelligent, these carnivores prefer to hunt larger targets with strong legs and sharp sickle talons.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Red & CrownlessCrow
Photo: Byuul
Profile inspired by maned wolves, caracals, skunks, Achillobator paleobiology, and creative liberty.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 12.04.2026 23:43
Overview
Bild
Medium Nocturnal Terrestrial Carnivore
Achillobator may take part in all activities other than hunting during the day.
Achillobator form strong bonds that may turn into lifelong bonds from mutual decision.
Achillobator are nomadic.
Achillobator have a tolerant nature.
Achillobator are not scavengers.
Achillobator shun albino Achillobator and Latenivenatrix. Other mutated individuals are tolerated or shunned based on individual preference, but never cannibalized.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Achillobator include:
Albino, Melanistic, DR Pseudomela, DR Piebald, DR Iridescent, DR Roan, DR Tabico
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
2 Sub/Adults, consisting of either a mated pair, a parent and child, or 2 siblings
Unlimited Offspring (if the pair are mates)
Achillobator may adopt up to 3 Latenivenatrix or Achillobator offspring total. 
Latenivenatrix may be adopted at any time by any individual or pair type; but Achillobator will only be adopted by mated pairs of Achillobator.
Achillobator may bond and socialize with 1 Latenivenatrix rookery.

When the pair have offspring or Latenivenatrix, the group is known as a pack. Otherwise, it is simply known as a pair.
 
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
WITHOUT LATENIVENATRIX:
Up to 2 Achillobator, without Latenivenatrix, may hunt up to Large tier.
Achillobator may attempt to hunt offspring of Adolescent and below, even if attended by Apex parents.

WITH LATENIVENATRIX:
Up to 2 Sub/Adult Achillobator may hunt with up to 3 Latenivenatrix.
With at least 1 Achillobator and 3 Latenivenatrix, Achillobator may hunt up to Apex tier, excluding Apatosaurus. They may only hunt solo Apex carnivores.

Territory defence: All Latenivenatrix and Achillobator may participate in defending their shared small nest territory. 
Driving out Deinonychus: Achillobator do not assist Latenivenatrix in driving Deinonychus out of the POI. 

Achillobator do not tolerate scavengers, except for their bonded Latenivenatrix.
Achillobator may defend their bonded Latenivenatrix and adoptees at any time.
Achillobator avoid Apex carnivore pairs, and other Achillobator pairs.
Adolescent Achillobator do not assist with their parents’ hunts, nor do they hunt alongside Latenivenatrix. They may, however, attempt to hunt critters or species smaller than them alone. If the hunt becomes dangerous, they forfeit and rush to be protected by their parents.

Preferred Prey
With 3 Latenivenatrix, up to 2 Achillobators may hunt up to Apex tier. They may only hunt solo Apex carnivores. 
Parties with less than 2 Latenivenatrix may only hunt up to Large tier.
When hunting alongside Latenivenatrix companions, Achillobator target larger prey first, such as; Iguanodon, Parasaurolophus, Pachyrhinosaurus and Eotriceratops if multiple prey options are available in the POI, within hunting limit requirements.
Achillobator do not hunt Deinonychus when with Latenivenatrix companions.
Achillobator will not eat the bodies of fallen Latenivenatrix companions or other Achillobator.
Achillobator do not hunt Amargasaurus, Apatosaurus, or Argentinosaurus.
Achillobator are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.
 
Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
Achillobators nest in dens, hollow trees, or deep foliage. They will often nest nearby or within Latenivenatrix creches.
Achillobators may form same-sex pairs and may adopt Achillobator or Latenivenatrix.

Physical Dimorphism
♀️ Females, called vixens, have rounded tails and have distinctive ruffs of feathers on top of their heads.
Suitable subspecies include: giganticus
♂️ Males, called tods, have forked tails, or a distinct lack of feathers.
Suitable subspecies include: barbatus, calvus
Physical dimorphism for Achillobator is mandatory.
High t and low t individuals are not observed in Achillobator.
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Achillobator hatchlings, known as pups, emerge from their eggs small, soft, and incredibly fragile. They trill and squawk softly for the attention of their parents, who eagerly give it, nuzzling their pups and issuing soft coos.
Within a few minutes, pups are able to move around on their own, and quickly shuffle to find comfortable places in the nest before curling up to find a comfortable place to sleep.
Buried in dense foliage or dens, pups are well-fed, well-maintained, and well-protected. These nesting sites are often surrounded in Latenivenatrix nests - and are as equally defended by them, as Latenivenatrix treat Achillobator similarly to their own offspring.
As Achillobator pups reach Juvenile, they begin to show more interest in the things around them, and start to initiate play with other pups in their clutch, their parents, and other Latenivenatrix - if available!
Pups might also nip at each other and their parents as a way of exploring; but are gently corrected and taught appropriate behaviors.
The family will resume migrating at this time. During migrations, pups often jump onto the backs and sides of their parents, and even onto Latenivenatrix companions, if able!
Pups also jump excitedly in greeting to new individuals, familiar individuals, their siblings, or at the sight of something they enjoy.
When attended by their parents, Achillobator pups may squawk, bark, whine, and yelp for food, water, or attention. At times, they even do this when they are very tired while attempting to fight sleep.
However, Achillobator are instinctively quiet when left unattended by their parents, and even when left alone with Latenivenatrix.
Towards the end of their Juvenile stage, immediately before Adolescent, pups experience a brief fear stage, where things that they were accustomed to previously suddenly become frightening to them.
With positive reinforcement and encouragement from their parents, Achillobator pups quickly regain their confidence, and may approach things with renewed vigor. 
If improperly introduced, or given reason to fear something without reassurance, pups openly avoid it in future, even far into adulthood.
By the time pups are Adolescent, they show more readiness for independence, and may stray slightly farther from their parents. 
This is also the time where they begin to show interest in hunting for themselves -  but do not attempt to hunt things larger than them, and do not attempt to hunt with their parents or Latenivenatrix. 
They may hunt critters or anything smaller than them independently.
They explore new curiosities by scratching and biting them, and may rub their sides and cheeks against trees and rocks.
As they continue to develop into adolescence, individuals start to express more personality traits; varying from dominant and confident, to shy and skittish. 
Dominant pups are often more destructive, destroying nests and digging deeper marks into trees, rocks, and dens. They are louder and like to show off often. This may eventually be past the limit that Achillobator parents can bear, resulting in them being rushed out of the group and territory.
Submissive pups will even openly avoid their parents, preferring the companionship of Latenivenatrix to their own family. Often, they disperse early.
At Sub-Adult, Achillobator pups, now grown, disperse on their own, are gently chased away, or ignored by their parents.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Achillobator pups who are orphaned or hatch without parents grow and develop more quickly than their parented counterparts.
Through necessity, they are forced to develop essential survival and hunting skills more quickly, and are often adept at taking down critters by as early as Juvenile.
What they experience during their fear period at the end of the Juvenile stage is crucial for their future development. Alarming or frightening situations can provoke lifelong fears for orphaned individuals - lacking the necessary reassurance to overcome these situations that comes with nurturing parents.
However, if lucky enough to be adopted, Achillobator readily adapt and settle easily with their new adoptive parents.
Orphaned or abandoned individuals who grow to adulthood may form stronger bonds with Latenivenatrix than their own species.
Achillobator who grow up alone take longer to form lifelong bonds, and typically show shy and avoidant behavior, if they are not outright snappish.
Bild
Achillobator are nocturnal, often traveling far distances under the cooler and more comfortable cloak of night. They may travel during the day, especially when food items or other resources are scarce.
Achillobator are often incredibly quiet when traveling, and may even take advantage of how quietly they are able to move to ambush potential prey items.
Achillobator may be observed rubbing themselves up against trees in order to mark their territories. They also rub their cheeks and sides against objects to deliver messages to other Achillobator, including their partner. These signals may indicate food, mark dens for repeat use, or places where food or trinkets have been hidden.
Achillobator pairs can be observed grooming and feeding one another in quiet moments, and often sleep very close together during rest periods, nuzzling their faces alongside one another.
Achillobator sometimes exhibit a form of “shyness” towards other species, avoiding being in their line of sight for extended periods where possible.
This extends to other Achillobator, with pairs and individuals preferring to give others a large berth, except when courting.
Achillobator utilize strong legs for jumping, leaping, and pouncing, and are able to latch onto the sides of large prey.
✦ Downtime Behavior
During rest periods, Achillobator curl up within the nesting creches of Latenivenatrix, if they are attended by Latenivenatrix or find a rookery. Otherwise, Achillobator often flock to den sites for warmth, curling up around their offspring and each other - or otherwise in piles of foliage.
Achillobator typically develop preferred sleeping and resting places, and construct elaborate nests over them. Some individuals may be extremely particular about how their nests look, and who they permit to enter it. While unwelcome intrusions from non threatening species rarely escalate to aggression, it sometimes results in disgruntled sighs and huffs.
They prefer shaded or dimly lit areas during the day, and follow shadows in order to stay in the shade, even as the sun shifts.
Bild
✦ Packs
A pack of Achillobator consists of a mated pair, often offspring or adoptees, and at times, Latenivenatrix.
These small familial groups are extremely tightly bonded, and are often observed sleeping close to one another, preening one another, and gifting food and large critters to one another.
Achillobator are often observed playing games of chase within their packs. This is especially exhibited by the mated pair, and often initiated back and forth in periods of rest.
Mated pairs commonly gaze at one another for extended periods, keeping their faces close together.
Achillobator are very attuned to their mate, and begin to identify their mate’s preferences in critters, types of food, and travel patterns. Both Achillobator become more comfortable as their bond continues, and over accumulated nests.
Shy Achillobator often become more emboldened by their partners, and will stand up for them fiercely when provoked to do so.
✦ Encountering other Achillobator
Achillobator are widely tolerant of other Achillobator, and will openly avoid one another if spotted, if not solitary and interested in courtship.
If a pair is nesting, they will expose their pups to the other briefly before huffing; this is a signal to any non-nesting pair to leave the area and permit the nesting pair space.
If both pairs are nesting, it is duly understood that both sides should give one another a wide berth. Achillobator do not bicker over nesting sites with other Achillobator, and will simply opt to find a different nesting site rather than starting a challenge for one.
If both pairs are migrating, both pairs temporarily pause to look at one another before turning tail and heading in opposite directions.
These encounters never escalate to violence for any reason.
The only time that violence may occur between packs of Achillobator - or solitary Achillobator - is for competition over kills; but once the battle is fought and won, the losing Achillobator will quickly leave the area to avoid further competition.
✦ Mutated Behavior
Albino Achillobator and albino Latenivenatrix are not tolerated by Achillobator. They will shun these individuals and opt to make distance, and do not return courtship or affectionate calls.
Individuals with other mutations are tolerated on a case-by-case basis, dependent on the individual's preference.
Bild
Achillobator are very rarely, if ever, aggressive within their own species, and prefer to avoid one another rather than directly confront one another.
Bild
Achillobator are largely tolerant to all species, but form mutualistic relationships with Latenivenatrix, a smaller raptor that responds well to the larger raptor’s calls and encouragement.
Achillobator do not tolerate scavengers attempting to feed from their kills, but may tolerate them in other circumstances.
Achillobator often wait in hiding near nests with offspring, taking advantage of periods where parents may temporarily abandon their nests, or while the parent is sleeping.
✦ Latenivenatrix
Achillobator benefit from the presence of Latenivenatrix, a smaller raptor that are able to act as companions to solitary or paired Achillobator.
Both Achillobator and Latenivenatrix defend each other fiercely, and work together, as directed by Achillobator, to hunt larger prey, and flush small prey into dens and trap them.
Bonds between Achillobator and Latenivenatrix companions form quickly, with Latens taking the time to preen Achillobator, bring them small items and trinkets, and food gifts.
Achillobator often view Latenivenatrix as their own offspring, and adopt them openly, even with none of their own offspring present. They may deposit them in their nests the same as their Achillobator siblings.
Achillobator, equally, are adopted by Latenivenatrix. Those adopted by Latenivenatrix often “sing” more often, exhibit more curiosity, and often believe themselves to be smaller than they are.
Achillobator may nest within Latenivenatrix creches, and may defend them alongside Latenivenatrix. Achillobator and Latenivenatrix often nest simultaneously for this reason. As a result, when offspring are old enough, pups and chicks may disperse together to form new groups.
Achillobator only hunt with Latenivenatrix at night. However, they may defend a nearby and bonded Latenivenatrix at any time.
When Latenivenatrix companions are in a territory challenge with Deinonychus, Achillobator do not assist in these matters. As a larger species than Latenivenatrix, they become an easier target for the small raptors. 
Similarly, when with Latenivenatrix companions, Achillobator do not hunt Deinonychus.
 
Bild
When hunting together, Achillobator are often eerily silent, with sharp focus on their prey. Mated pairs develop their own unique body language cues in order to encourage their partner forward or relay other strategies in hunts.
Achillobator do not have the endurance for long distance hunts, and often prefer to chase for short distances, stalking prey until they are close and able to quickly close the distance.
Often, Achillobator use ambush tactics and use their intelligence to take advantage of potential opportunities - such as waiting for parents to leave their nests, so that they may hunt the offspring within.
Achillobator use their wickedly sharp sickle claws to carve deep wounds into their targets, and take their time to weaken prey through bleeding them out.
Achillobator can be brutish while hunting, and rush to force themselves between prey and their paths out of the area, often attempting to back them into a corner where they cannot run from.
Achillobator watch their targets for weaknesses and quickly take advantage of them, whether it is encouraging their mate into action or encouraging one of their Latenivenatrix to rush forward.
Achillobator avoid chasing high-speed prey for extended periods, and prefer to hunt larger targets that cannot move as quickly.
Achillobator have been observed leaping into the air to attempt to catch birds that fly overhead.
✦ Hunting with Latenivenatrix
Achillobator hunt alongside up to 3 Latenivenatrix companions.
When hunting alongside 3 Latenivenatrix companions, Achillobator may hunt up to Apex tier - excluding sauropods such as Amargasaurus, Apatosaurus, and Argentinosaurus. 
As a result, they target larger prey first, such as: Iguanodon, Parasaurolophus, Pachyrhinosaurus and Eotriceratops if multiple prey options are available in the POI, within hunting limit requirements.
Achillobator naturally take the lead in hunts while working with Latenivenatrix.
They may flush small prey into dens for Latenivenatrix to rush into. Latenivenatrix are better at getting into these small dens, and are able to successfully flush prey back out of the dens and back to the waiting Achillobator, if not kill the prey in the den outright.
Achillobator attempt to provide their Latenivenatrix companions with windows of opportunity for them to pounce onto the sides of large prey in order to further deepen wounds they have cut with their claws.
Bild
✦ Courtship
When interested in finding a mate, female Achillobator begin to broadcast in hope of attracting the attention of others in the nearby areas.
An interested male, once within her line of sight, will begin to quietly chatter in her direction to alert her of his presence.
Once noticed, the male will find a nearby hiding spot if he is not already in one.
Female Achillobator approach the male with slow, careful steps, often weaving between shrubs and trees with her sides facing him to close the distance.
The male will continue his chattering in a show of interest, peeking out from his hiding spot. If he loses interest or the female approaches too quickly, he will fall silent.
Once the distance is closed and she can inspect the male, she will do so by circling him as she inspects his scars and plumage. During this, he will call to her affectionately.
Once her inspection is complete, she will return his call before running off.
The male follows after her in a brief game of chase.
Their game ends when the female stops and calls affectionately to the male.
✦ Same-Sex Courtship
Between vixens, their echoing calls may draw the attention of the other. Upon spotting each other, the two fall silent and approach at a steady pace, occasionally weaving between trees.
Their confident strides towards each other bring the two close enough for each to inspect the other. Whichever female begins the chase, the other will follow. This ends upon a heart call from the one who began the chase.
Between tods, the process is a lot more hesitant with consistent chatter as they slowly work towards the other. Once meeting in the middle and satisfied with the presence of the other, low chatter grows into excited chirps. Rather than a game of chase, the two will decide to pair then.
✦ Nesting
Achillobator seek out locations with suitable coverage. This is in excess foliage, inside a fallen log, or beneath the roots of tree.
Once courted, a tod will lead the vixen to a presumably acceptable nesting location. If she is satisfied with the spot, she will place her nest down. She may reject the location he led her and instead bring him to a place of her choosing.
Upon the eggs being laid in the nest, the female will often change between sitting on the eggs or preening her nest, often moving about meticulously placed branches and coverage to her liking.
The male, at this time, will search for small rodents and other creatures he can provide his mate with while she expends her energy on the nest and brooding over their eggs.
Established Pairs:
In the case of established pairs, vixens indicate interest in nesting with their mates when at “pinnacle nutrition,” a term used to refer to being well-fed, well-maintained, and overall happy with her mate.
She indicates this interest by broadcasting at him in the same fashion in which they met, extending her arms and showing the undersides of her wings, and flapping her arms.
Latenivenatrix may assist with this process, if present.
This will prompt the tod to lead her to a suitable nesting site, or the same nesting site as their first clutch, which results in the same process repeating.
✦ Parenthood
Once pups have hatched, the mother inspects her offspring, cleaning their wet feathers. She introduces herself to each one with a soft call, which they return in soft squeaks and squeals.
As soon as the pups are settled, she swaps places with her mate in order to fetch critters. The tod repeats the same introduction process with his pups, and curls around them snugly to keep them warm.
The female then finds the nearest meal, most likely several critters, to eat before returning to her nest and mate.
As pups reach Juvenile, they begin to exhibit more playfulness, both towards their siblings, any Latenivenatrix, and their parents. Parents return these tiny games in turn, but are careful not to accidentally trample pups, rarely running too quickly when near them.
Pups are fiercely protected by both parents throughout their lives, though especially once beginning to move with the pups.
A nipping pup, especially one who has bitten its parent, is corrected swiftly, yet gently, often with a snap in the air next to the pup.
Pups are often encouraged to pounce onto the backs and sides of their parents, especially when fleeing a potential predator. Achillobator pups are always given priority to latch onto their sides over Latenivenatrix, but a parent may allow a Latenivenatrix to latch if there is room.
Pups are very vocal, but if they are too vocal during a period intended to be quiet, parents quickly and gently correct the behavior with eye contact and sharp huffs.
Towards the end of their Juvenile stage, pups go through a brief fear stage, where things once familiar to them can suddenly spook them. Parents gently reassure pups and nudge them back towards confronting their fear once the pups have settled. Without this reinforcement, pups may maintain these anxieties throughout the rest of their life.
At adolescence, pups begin to express more independence and maturity, even going as far as to hunt critters and other small prey on their own. Parents observe this, but hardly interfere, unless the safety of the pup is at risk.
Parents continue to correct over-aggressive or dominant behavior, but may even drive out a pup if these behaviors go too far. Additionally, some parents may attempt to linger and offer comfort to pups who distance themselves– but will eventually move on without them if the situation calls for it.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Pups are permitted to remain with their parents until they reach Sub-Adult.
Already frequently drifting from their parents, the pups, which had been doted on, are ignored and snapped at if they come too close.
Should a Sub-Adult attempt to eat from their parents meals, its parents will deliver swift nips - often to the face.
Having received the message, the pup moves on from their parents' care.
✦ Adoption
Achillobator does not adopt orphaned Achillobator pups unless in a mated pair.
Achillobator may always adopt Latenivenatrix.
Mated pairs who find an orphaned pup regard them with curiosity, crouching down and inspecting the newly found pup.
If willing to accept it, new parents fondly chatter at the pup and quickly accept it as their own.
Mated pairs who do not want the pup or pairs who cannot adopt will snap in the direction of the pup or call aggressively to cause it to flee, sending a clear message.
Bild
As Achillobator age, they go through cognitive declines, indicating that the end of their life is near.
Elderly Achillobator often struggle with higher levels of anxiety, confusion, and disorientation. They may run in circles through the same cave systems or through the same forests, unable to find their way out alone.
Elderly Achillobator may also suffer from reduced mobility, or pain after intense hunts, slowing them down and even resulting in accidental death following hunts.
Mated Achillobator may be much clingier to their pairbonds. This can often mean a poor outcome for both individuals if they are both elderly; trusting one another to guide each other further into caves, where they may never come out from.
✦ Death
Achillobator often die in cave systems, or stuck in mud or water in coastal areas.
This makes them, incidentally, great prey for aquatic creatures.
If an individual from a mated pair dies, the other mourns them for a short time, calling softly at the place where they last saw them. The grief might not even occur to them until they have lost sight of them, and their calls do not bring them running back.
Bild
Achillobator’s fondness for Latenivenatrix extends to entire rookeries and may be seen socializing with several Latenivenatrix. Achillobator only bonds to 1 rookery, but is allowed a maximum of 3 in hunts.
While able to hunt alongside Latenivenatrix, Achillobator is not able to form an in game group with Latenivenatrix, due to server limits.
Achillobator may still hunt offspring and Albinos during the day time.
Bild
Achillobator share timers with their Latenivenatrix companions when hunting with them.
Achillobator may defend their Latenivenatrix companions at any time, but only hunt alongside them at night.
Achillobator may only hunt Apex tier species with 2+ Latenivenatrix and 1+ Achillobator. They will not hunt sauropods such as Amargasaurus, Apatosaurus, or Argentinosaurus, and will not hunt pairs of Apex carnivores.
RULE EXEMPTIONS
Achillobator do not have to claim Achillobator or Latenivenatrix body downs (4.4).
Achillobator are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Achillobator are Medium Nocturnal Terrestrial Carnivores.
Achillobator can group up to 2 sub/adults, unlimited offspring, and up to 3 Achillobator or Latenivenatrix adoptees. Achillobator will only adopt other Achillobator if in a pair.
Achillobator form bonds with Latenivenatrix companions, and stay loyal to a single rookery.
Achillobator are tolerant.
Achillobator can have up to 2 in an engagement. Achillobator may also hunt alongside up to 3 Latenivenatrix.
Without Latenivenatrix or with up to 2 Latenivenatrix, Achillobator may hunt up to Large tier. With 3 Latenivenatrix, Achillobator may hunt Apex tier. Achillobator do not hunt sauropods or pairs of Apex carnivores. Achillobator may not scavenge.
Achillobator form strong pairbonds that often develop into lifelong pairbonds. These relationships are a core part of their survival into adulthood, and is built on longstanding bonds and trust.
Achillobator are often observed playing games of chase with one another.
Achillobator move quietly, avoiding drawing attention to themselves, and allowing them to stalk closer to prey without being detected.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time: (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 2800
Adjusted Stats:
- Bite damage increased to 70 from 55
- Claw attack damage increased to: 90 from 60
- Combat weight increased to 2800 from 2200
- Health increased to 600 from 550
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 12.04.2026 23:51
Quick Links
Top
Growing up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?