Stegosaurus
 "Stego"
Stegosaurus is one of the only truly territorial species that mix herds with others of similar genus. Armed with spiked tails and a selfish attitude, they roam between resource rich areas and claim ownership of any food and water within their immediate vicinity. Known for their aggressive instincts, they are a force to be reckoned with - especially when smaller stegosaurids are nearby.

⁨⁨⁨
Written by Dynasty Realism
Photo: Surprizesoup
Profile inspired by paleo speculation and Grévy's Zebra (Equus grevyi).
⁩⁩⁩

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 30.01.2026 21:07
Overview
Bild
Large Cathemeral Terrestrial Herbivore
Stegosaurus form harem bonds that transition into lifelong harem bonds after each female nests 3 clutches with the same male. At this stage, Stegosaurus become elders.
Stegosaurus are nomadic but inherently territorial over food and drinkable water and claim small territories around these resources.
Stegosaurus are tolerant when migrating, but become aggressive when claiming a resource.
Stegosaurus may group with: Miragaia and Kentrosaurus.
Stegosaurus may defend and join engagements with these species if grouped together.
Stegosaurus shun albino individuals (and group members), but tolerate other mutations.
Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Stegosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic, DR Axanthic, DR Piebald
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.
Group Limits (In-Game Group)
4 Sub/Adults comprising of up to 1 male and 3 females
The male must be unrelated to the females.
Unlimited offspring
Unlimited adoptees

This group is known as a zeal.

Additionally, Stegosaurus can group with up to 2 adult Miragaia and up to 8 adult Kentrosaurus.
Unlimited offspring and adoptees below Sub Adult of these species are permitted.

When herding with these other species, the group is known as a stegosaurid herd.
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Predator Reaction: ⁨⁨Headstrong⁩⁩
Group member defence - hunting
2 Sub/Adults may take part in an engagement.
If a male is present in the zeal, he always defends the targeted individual.
Adolescents and below do not count to this engagement limit.
Defence of resources (food, water and nesting sites)
All grouped Stegosaurus of Sub/Adult age may take part in territory defence against all species.
Cross-species protection
Stegosaurus may actively defend and join engagements with Miragaia and Kentrosaurus that are grouped with them. Group members outside of these engagement limits must move 10 body lengths away.
When hunted: 2 Sub/Adult Stegosaurus may defend the herd, alongside 1 Miragaia and up to 4 Kentrosaurus.
Defending resources: If Stegosaurus is present, Miragaia and Kentrosaurus do not take part.
Preferred Diet
Berries and soft fruit 
When berries and fruits are scarce, Stegosaurus may opt to eat flowers, nuts and roots.
Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿ (often twins) per 3 hours.
Stegosaurus build their nests in dedicated nesting grounds.
Stegosaurus do not form same sex pairs.
Physical Dimorphism
This profile does not have low T and high T individuals. Physical dimorphism is mandatory.
♀️ Females have rounded plates. 
Suitable subspecies include: sulcatus
♂️ Males, known as bulls, have spiked plates. 
Suitable subspecies include: stenops, ungulatus
 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Baby Stegosaurus, known as platelets, are highly dependent on their parents and closely follow other Stegosaurus, Miragaia and Kentrosaurus - but instinctively bond with and follow behind their mothers first and foremost.
Platelets emerge from their eggs small and vulnerable, with soft, rounded plates and stubby tails. Their mother is usually there to greet them after hatching, and they call out affectionately to her as she nuzzles into them during their first few moments of life outside the egg.
Platelets immediately rise onto their feet shortly after hatching.
Their attempts to move at first are clumsy, with frequent stumbling as they struggle to coordinate their legs and tail at the same time. Mothers patiently stand beside their young, gently nudging them upright as they stumble, and encouraging them to follow them.
Once more confidently mobile - typically by the end of the hatchling period - platelets tend to adopt an attitude of "strike first, ask questions later". Their way of exploring the world is based upon experiences - and confident platelets will smack their tails against new objects, testing it with their small but powerful tails.
Platelets are naturally cautious, having a tendency to freeze in place when they hear or spot something that alarms them. This behavior is instinctual, and allows adults in their group a better opportunity to move to protect them.
Despite their cautious nature, platelets quickly show a curious character, bleating and chirping at new objects and individuals they encounter.
At juvenile, platelets begin having playful tussles with one another. Individuals of both sexes turn away from each other and smack at the other with their tails, practising the movements they will rely on later as adults. Both babies seem to enjoy this play, and never take each other below half health. These games often end in snorting and clumsy tumbles, but serve as important exercises in balance and coordination.
Platelets only eat one to two different types of food throughout their lives, and the basis of their diet is entirely guided by the adults around them, and their exposure to different food types. They rely on the adults in the stegosaurid herd - and not just their mother - for guidance on what is safe to consume.
As they age, baby Stegosaurus naturally drift more towards Miragaia if they are lucky enough to have one present within the stegosaurid herd. Though they will always defer to their mothers, Miragaia are recognized and respected as excellent caregivers, and platelets seem to enjoy any interactions and affection a Miragaia may offer them.
Approaching adolescence, platelets' freeze responses become less and less common as they mature and develop into their more adult personalities. Somewhere midway through this age phase, adolescents begin to start taking more defensive and aggressive postures - and by the time they reach Sub-Adult, the freeze response is gone entirely.
At this time, a more noticeable difference emerges between males and females. Adolescent males spend the majority of their time sparring with other adolescents - and even their father, if permitted - in a desperate attempt to develop dominance, and highlight their strength and stamina.
Females, meanwhile, remain more social, binding together to socialize with other females in the group, and grazing alongside each other.
At Sub Adult, all offspring disperse from the zeal - including females, even if there is room. Sisters often bind together and stay together permanently if they forge strong enough bonds. 
Sub Adult female offspring are permitted to trail behind their parents' zeal (un-grouped) until their parents either nest again, or they find a male of their own to form their own zeal with. Any Miragaia or Kentrosaurus offspring that age up out of the stegosaurid herd may choose to follow along with the newly mature sisters, forming a new stegosaurid herd.
Males split off into a solitary lifestyle, keen to find their own females to carve out their dynasties. Brothers may loosely follow each other for some time (un-grouped), but will never defend the other, and quickly battle for control of any females they encounter.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Platelets that hatch alone - or lose a parent - often do manage to make it to adulthood, providing they do not encounter too many dangers along the way.
Instinctively, they move to follow - and perhaps even imprint - on any other stegosaurid species, such as Stegosaurus, Kentrosaurus or Miragaia. Happily for them, they will usually be adopted by any of these species they find - and this normally results in the best outcome for an orphaned platelet.
Those that do not manage to find others of their kind or similar still fare decently, but may more quickly lose the freeze response that is so instinctual in Stegosaurus young.
 
Bild
Stegosaurus are a cathemeral species, but are the most active at night. During the daytime, they bask in the sun, walk between food and water, and defend their chosen resource from other species and rival Stegosaurid groupings. 
Though they seem to love to sunbathe, this basking behavior is very beneficial to them, and helps them to recharge their energy for a night spent engaging in more active behaviors.
Stegosaurus are highly sluggish during the day time, and do not sprint unless in an engagement or actively fleeing an engagement.
At night, Stegosaurus are their most active, spending the majority of this time socializing, migrating and courting.
Stegosaurus are notoriously grumpy individuals, prone to aggressive posturing when approached by other species. They only ever share their space with the rest of their zeal members, and Miragaia and Kentrosaurus they group with to form a wider stegosaurid herd.
Stegosaurus seem to have an excellent memory, with highly experienced lead males careful to remember good areas with lots of resources for their herd.
Stegosaurus sleep in short bursts - mainly throughout the day when they are lazy and more sluggish, but also at night during times of quiet. Sometimes this can be taken standing up, and at other times laying down for a more comfortable session of sleep.
Stegosaurus deeply enjoy bathing -  especially during the day, when the heat of the sun can feel exhausting. They are not the best swimmers, so prefer to remain in shallower pools, or on the edge of a riverbank.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Stegosaurus primarily sleep standing up in order to quickly evade predators when necessary, and take short naps. Their tendons and ligaments lock their knee joints to prevent falling. These resting periods are typically brief, and are denoted by a Stegosaurus lowering their head as far as they can.
Stegosaurus will only achieve deep sleep by lying down - typically when they feel safe with their herd. A lack of proper sleep results in a Stegosaurus being sluggish, and moving slowly.
Stegosaurus will often sleep in shifts with other members of the herd, with some individuals staying alert while others rest.
Sleeping upright allows for a quick transition - from sleeping to fleeing, with alarmed calls and swinging tails.
 
Bild
✦ Zeal grouping
Stegosaurus form groups of one male and up to three females. While the females in the zeal can be related to each other, none of them are related to the male, who only tolerates potential breeding partners.
As such, related females to the male are not permitted to remain in a zeal, with males seeking access to potential breeding partners only.
Females prefer to stay with their male once a zeal has formed, but may opt to leave the zeal at any point - even after three clutches raised together and stronger bonds are formed. However, once a strong bond has formed between a male and a female, it is much less likely a female will leave the group.
If a rival male challenges for the rights to the female, the female will still leave to go with the winning male if he is successful - strong bond or not. If strongly bonded, though, she may pine after her previous male, and look to find her way back to him after a while - should the new male not meet her standards after some time.
Males therefore spend a lot of time showing the females in his zeal great affection. They work as the primary protector in the group, always leaping to the defence of his females during engagements, and even to the defence of the other stegosaurid species in their wider herd.
Females bond socially with other females, and tend to group closely together, shadowing each other and tending to have offspring at the same time.
Abandoned or orphaned young are readily swept up by both male and female alike, and integrated into the zeal until they come of age. Orphaned females may be permitted to remain if there is space, while orphaned males may stay only if there is not already an adult male in the group.
✦ Solitary Behavior
When solitary, Stegosaurus tend to migrate between instinctual nesting locations.
A male, oftentimes alone by nature, travels these paths anyway, seeking suitable females for his future harem. He travels along well known paths, hoping to encounter another zeal he can challenge for females of his own.
Females are reluctant to travel too far from known areas, and typically remain in places they feel comfortable in before venturing too far from known areas. They do not tolerate other species sharing their resources, but will accept defeat if greatly outnumbered during a fight or challenge.
 
Bild
✦ Resource possession (small territory)
Stegosaurus are a selfish species and become possessive over claimed resources. When near drinkable water or berries, they guard their food and water fiercely, becoming highly aggressive to all others outside of their group that come within 10 body lengths of the resource.
✦ Zeal vs Zeal
Stegosaurus have no tolerance to other Stegosaurus unless they have room in their zeal (group) for other members. If the newcomer cannot be integrated into their zeal, and is not adolescent or younger, they are met with fierce aggression.

If two Zeals encounter each other:
Individuals instinctively react by posturing upon noticing a rival. This behaviour includes broadcasting (:broadcast_call: ) and standing in line of sight of the ungrouped Stegosaurus.
Males and females react in different ways during this engagement: 
↪︎ Females stand their ground. They raise on their hind legs to intimidate (:looking:), and broadcast (:broadcast_call: ) to appear more formidable. 
Even if a Zeal has a male already, females do not aggress another male approaching them. Patience is given to allow both males to compete, or open opportunities to be courted. If a harem has no room for additional females, approaching males simply aggresses the rival group away. Knowing they are outnumbered, the rival females are forced to leave without conflict.
However if both groups do not have a male, a single female from each group may step in to challenge the rivals for ownership rights over nearby drinkable water and food resources.
↪︎ Males, when confronted by a rival Zeal, approach boldly. They posture with broadcast calls (:broadcast_call:) and walk towards the approaching group. 
If a rival male steps forward, the two exchange aggressive bellows (:threaten_call:) and compete for courtship rights over both female groupings. This fight is incredibly risky, and ends on a forfeit call (:danger_call:). 
The winning male is given an opportunity: court the rival group's females, or chase them from their claimed resource.
If he aggresses the rival zeal, he is joined by his females, and they work together to chase out the rival group.
✦ Males
Within a zeal, experienced males learn not to show aggression to their females. Any pushy or dominating reaction towards them often results in females abandoning him to seek another, more gentle male.
✦ Females
Females within a zeal can show aggression to each other. The longer they remain together, the less aggressive and demanding they become. New members are welcomed, but mistakes can result in light shunning behavior. Older females keep keen eyes on younger females, particularly around hatchlings. Any wrong move will result in posturing - and the female temporarily pushed away to travel at the back of the group.
 
Bild
✦ Stegosaurid herd: Miragaia
Miragaia are accepted into Stegosaurus groups, turning a zeal into a stegosaurid herd. Once part of a herd, Miragaia is considered a faithful group member, and defended the same as if they were Stegosaurus themselves.
If stumbling upon an orphaned Miragaia baby, both genders of Stegosaurus are known to adopt and raise the abandoned young.
Miragaia are a very protective and observant species, and Stegosaurus trust these guardians to watch over young and help defend resources from rivals.
Stegosaurus willingly defend Miragaia from threats, and join them in engagements.
✦ Stegosaurid herd: Kentrosaurus
Kentrosaurus are accepted into Stegosaurus groups. They serve as a highly useful sentry species for the poorer sighted Stegosaurus. Their speed and alert nature helps Stegosaurus defend their resources, and bring their attention to any potential threats.
When finding Kentrosaurus orphans, Stegosaurus are known to adopt this species and raise them.
Stegosaurus willingly defends Kentrosaurus from threats, and joins them in engagements.
✦ Stegosaurid Herd vs Stegosaurid Herd
Stegosaurus vs Stegosaurus
If both groups contain a stegosaurus male, Miragaia and Kentrosaurus bunch tightly together with any female Stegosaurus in the group and step aside to let the males battle. They do not take part in these challenges and are forced to watch the challenge play out. 
Miragaia and Kentrosaurus can choose whether to stay with their current group, or join the other.
If no stegosaurus males are present, and both groups contain a female stegosaurus,  Miragaia and Kentrosaurus allow a single female Stegosaurus to make decisions for the greater herd. This is either to merge, or challenge for a nearby resource.

Stegosaurus on one side only 
With a Stegosaurus only in one group, the group without one is forced to abandon the resource.
✦ Other Herbivores & Carnivores
Other herbivores and carnivores are ignored - but kept a close eye on - unless they come within 10 body lengths of a guarded resource. Those that dare to come too close - or worse, even attempt to challenge - are met with aggressive posturing that escalates until the species leaves or accepts the challenge.
When young are present in the herd, Stegosaurus readily bellow loudly (:broadcast_call: ) in both a warning display and to alert their herd of the incoming threat. The bull, hotheaded and protective, paces around his herd and their current bush or drinking spot. His calls shift to aggressive displays with tail swipes and scoffing puffs of air (:threaten_call:).
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 30.01.2026 21:17
Bild
✦ Zeals
When approached by a predator, Stegosaurus react with aggressive posturing to ward off the threat and appear more formidable. By broadcasting (:broadcast_call:) and pacing, they aim to showcase themselves as dangerous prey.
Should a predator choose to hunt them, the male of the zeal always rushes to the defense of the attacked female, and a female will readily defend her bull if in a harem. If no bull is within the Zeal, a female will step in to protect a targeted female.
A maximum of 2 Sub/Adult Stegosaurus may engage the threat (active defenders); charging with their tails swinging and pacing around the herd.
The remaining Stegosaurus stand their ground, swinging their tails when the threat enters personal space and making room for the engaged Stegosaurus to retreat into safety, should they become wounded. The Stegosaurus not actively engaged only moves away if the threat proves too great (a fellow Stegosaurus reaches heavy death scars) - and hopes their defenders follow suit.
(If the entire herd is only the active defenders, and a predator forfeits, the herd can pursue until the threat is killed. Once 1 body falls, combat must stop.)
Offspring are always defended by their mother, and usually get pushed out of the way of their swinging tails.
✦ Stegosaurid herd
When grouped with Miragaia and Kentrosaurus, up to 2 Sub/adult Stegosaurus, 1 Miragaia and 4 Kentrosaurus can work together to actively chase away the threat. These active defenders stop pursuing once a predator leaves 10 body lengths from the herd.
(If the entire herd is only the active defenders, and a predator forfeits, the herd can pursue until the threat is killed. Once 1 body falls, combat must stop.)
Any other stegosaurid in the grouping forms a defensive circle and does not chase. These defenders will still attack if a predator enters their personal space.
If winning the fight seems unlikely, and a fellow stegosaurid reaches heavy death scars, those in the defensive circle begin to move away - hoping the active defenders notice and follow behind.
Each group is unique. Some active defenders blindly rush at threats, while others have organized roles during times of danger.
The engagement limit when an individual in mixed-species group is hunted is: 2 sub/adult Stegosaurus, 1 sub/adult Miragaia and 4 sub/adult Kentrosaurus.
 
Bild
✦ Courtship
Courtship only occurs during the night activity schedule. It initially begins with a male circling a female slowly, letting out soft, rumbling growls and giving a shake of his head and body, rustling his plates for her. This begins shortly after a female joins the zeal.
Females - even if interested - tend to require a bit of persistence from the male and prove his willingness to put effort in for her, and use this as a form of 'test'. The more persistent a male, the more likely a female will accept his courtship advances.
So, females turn away from the male as he circles her, feigning disinterest and seeking to walk away slowly, pushing him to up his persistence to continue circling her.
Inexperienced males may initially be confused by this and may even give up their pursuit, prompting frustrated and aggressive calls from the female - further adding to the male's confusion.
Experienced males recognize this game and continue their persistence, circling and shaking at the female.
Eventually, if she accepts his advances, she will turn to face him, affectionately call and shake back, and the pair will look to find a suitable place together to construct a nest.
However,  if the female has no interest in courtship whatsoever, she will lay down during his advances, immediately stopping the "game" and giving a clear signal to the male that she does not wish to nest.
Males - even inexperienced ones - always respect this, and simply move on to another female in the group, or save their efforts to try again another time.
Males can court with all the females in his group at the same time and usually will - aiming to ensure the females rear young at the same time.
✦ Nesting
Nests are placed reasonably close to water sources to enable young easy access to drinking water. Females seek to place their nests nearby each other, fostering more of a group environment in which to raise their offspring. Dense coverage close to another female's nest and close to water is an ideal location to place a nest.
Once nests are built and eggs laid, females stay by their nests until their young start to hatch. As babies emerge, mothers nuzzle and show affection to their offspring, and encourage them onto their feet for their first stumbling moments.
✦ Parenthood
Females are highly protective over their young and do not tolerate ungrouped species nearby (within 10 body lengths). They keep platelets close to them, and guide them to different food sources.
Females alert the male to the threat, broadcasting to gain his and the herd's attention. This aggression evolves into a territory challenge around the herd, should the intruder continue to approach. This radius does not exceed 10 body lengths and Stegosaurus does not challenge outside of this.
Miragaia may seek to help assist mothers (and fathers) in offspring rearing, but initially Stegosaurus mothers prefer to keep their platelets close, and shake their heads at approaching Miragaia, blocking them access to their young with their bodies.
However, once platelets reach Juvenile, mothers relax significantly, and more willingly allow their young out of their sight - often towards the loving care lavished upon them by Miragaia.
Mothers - even those that have platelets being cared for intensely by Miragaia - viciously defend their young when danger approaches them, and are the first ones to leap to the defence when a predator comes.
If there are no Miragaia in the herd - or a mother is particularly protective (especially for a first clutch) - mothers lead their young to food and water sources within the territory, helping to teach them what is safe to eat, and which food stuffs to avoid.
Even overprotective and first time mothers will willingly accept childcare from Miragaia when feeling overwhelmed - which is especially common with large clutches of needy young.
However, the care provided may be temporary, depending on the nature of the mother. When she feels recovered enough, she will call out to her offspring, who will obediently return to her side.
Mothers tend to ignore playfights between platelets and move away from them when they do - but fathers keep a close watch on all the young within the zeal, carefully stepping in to prevent further injury if he deems that offspring have gone too far in their playful tussles.
If the stegosaurid herd opts to move, any nests will be destroyed by mothers before they leave - sometimes with the assistance of their young, who delight in the destruction and crushing of old egg shells.
✦ Offspring Maturity
As offspring reach Sub-Adult, they get pushed out of the zeal and wider stegosaurid herd by their father, who body blocks them and moves the group on from their current territory and into a new one.
Sons split off and leave the area entirely and solo - though may travel (un-grouped) temporarily with their brothers until they find other stegosaurus or stegosaurid species they can group with.
Daughters are permitted to trail behind the herd, un-grouped, so long as they leave a wide enough berth to not encroach upon the zeal's space (10 body lengths away) . They will be aggressed if they get too close.
Daughters may often hover for a while in particular if there are young Miragaia or Kentrosaurus about to age out of the stegosaurid herd, providing them with companions to form their own stegosaurid herd.
✦ Adoption
All orphaned offspring of adolescence or younger are tolerated into the zeal - if not adopted entirely by the group. Females with no - or few - young often waddle over to the frightened baby and show them affection, encouraging them to follow her.
Orphans rapidly get absorbed by Miragaia within the herd if they are present. Orphans get protected by all members of the herd as if they were biologically related.
Orphans that age up (and are female) are sometimes permitted to stay if there is room for them.
The male shares parental care between all the young in his herd - including Miragaia and Kentrosaurus young, though preferential treatment is always given to his own.
 
Bild
The elder phase of a Stegosaurus's life begins after investing significant energy in continuing their bloodline. A fulfilling life transitions the zeal into a tightly bonded group, marked by each female in the harem successfully producing over 3 clutches with the male. Once lifelong bonded, the male and his females become inseparable.
The need to compete with others of their species diminishes with age, with Stegosaurus rapidly becoming lazier. More time is spent lounging in the sun, with less time spent patrolling and managing resources.
Sometimes, the will to even push out other Stegosaurus and Stegosaurid herd fades considerably, with less interest shown in territorial behaviours and more time spent migrating through favourite locations.
Colors fade often with age, with once bright individuals losing some of the saturation in their scales and plates.
✦ Death
When a Stegosaurus dies, the body is abandoned. A bonded partner might glance over the lifeless corpse, but ultimately, life resumes.
A male with a full harem might never replace the female that was lost, as their lifelong bonds stay firm till death claims each individual. 
Females go through a long mourning period. Even if impressed by another male, she does not nest with him while still grieving the loss of her previous bull. The decision to move on is unique to each female - some remain unboned, while others slowly rekindle the bond with another.
Bild
Physical Dimorphism is mandatory, and subspecies based. Males and females may be any skin that is not listed as a mutation.
Stegosaurus male challenges end on a body drop, or forfeit call (:friendly_call:). The winner must respect the forfeit call.
If a Stegosaurus, Miragaia, or Kentrosaurus in a mixed-species group is targeted by a predator, a set number of sub/adults will act as active defenders: 2 Stegosaurus, 1 Miragaia, and 4 Kentrosaurus.
All other stegosaurids in the group form a defensive circle and only attack if the predator enters their personal space (within one body length).
As a headstrong species, Stegosaurids ignore any forfeiture or surrender attempts made by predators. If the herd has individuals that stand their ground, the active defenders stop pursuing once the predator has retreated beyond 10 body lengths from the defending herd. However, if the “active defenders” consist of the entire herd - meaning no individuals are holding their ground - then the fight continues until the predator is killed, or the active defenders decide to give up.
Stegosaurus may NOT switch subspecies after juvenile.
Aggressive response: 
When migrating; Kentrosaurus, Miragia and Stegosaurus tolerate ungrouped individuals and other species..
When at a claimed resource; Kentrosaurus, Miragia and Stegosaurus do not tolerate anything within 10 body lengths of their resource.
 
Bild
Stegosaurid herds cannot exceed the following group limits: 
1 Sub/Adult male Stegosaurus + 3 Sub/Adult female Stegosaurus. 
2 Sub/Adult Miragaia
8 Sub/Adult Kentrosaurus
Offspring/adoptees under Sub-Adult for all species are unlimited.
RULE EXEMPTIONS
Stegosaurus does not abide by timers after engagements 3.9
Bild
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 01:43
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Stegosaurus are Large Cathemeral Terrestrial Herbivores.
Stegosaurus can group up to 4 sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees. They can also group with Miragaia and Kentrosaurus to form a stegosaurid herd.
Stegosaurus are aggressive.
Stegosaurus can have up to 2 in an engagement. Males always opt to defend, and mothers defend their young primarily.
Stegosaurus do not flee, and actively chase away threats from their herd.
Stegosaurus are notoriously bad-tempered herbivores that show aggression to almost all other species they encounter.
They become territorial and claim a small territory around a resource such as a food bush or water source. All species are chased away from the resource if they come too close.
Stegosaurus group up with and defend Kentrosaurus & Miragaia, forming a multi-species herd known as a stegosaurid herd. Kentrosaurus serve as sentries for Stegosaurus, while Miragaia are excellent caretakers for young.
Stegosaurus zeals comprise 4 sub/adults, with a maximum of one male and up to three females. Males can challenge other males for rights to their females.
Stegosaurus are cathemeral, and spend most of the day lounging and basking in the sun. Most of their activity is during the night.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time: (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-40-50-70 = 180 total
Combat Weight: 5000
Adjusted Stats:
⁨
- Max health increased to 800 from 650
- Stamina sprint cost multiplier reduced
- Subspecies buffs removed
- Tail cooldown reduced to 1 second
⁩ 
Profile in Under 60 Seconds - Video Series
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=74cn2YXctYI
YouTube
Dynasty Realism
Dynasty Realism: Profiles in Under 60 Seconds - Stegosaurus
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Predator Reaction
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?