Citipati
Citipati was a bird-like dinosaur from the Late Cretaceous period, around 75 million years ago, found in what is now Mongolia. Known for its distinctive crest and close relationship to modern birds, Citipati was an omnivore, likely feeding on plants, small animals, and eggs. Famous for its fossilized nesting behavior, Citipati would sit atop its eggs, much like modern birds. Its parental care and brooding instincts give us unique insights into the connection between dinosaurs and birds.

⁨
Author: Skylark_29
Photo: Byuul
Profile inspired by wild & domestic chickens.
⁩

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 21.01.2025 15:54
Overview
Details
Medium Diurnal Terrestrial Herbivore
Citipati form harem bonds.
Citipati are nomadic.
Citipati have a passive nature.
Citipati may group with: Amargasaurus, Ampelosaurus, Apatosaurus, Argentinosaurus, Bonapartenykus, Camptosaurus, Iguanodon, Lambeosaurus, Parasaurolophus and Struthiomimus.
Citipati may not defend these species, even when grouped with them.
Citipati tolerate leucistic and melanistic individuals.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Unlimited Sub-Adult/Adults comprised of;
Harem groups of up to 1 rooster and 3 hens and their related or adopted offspring
Related, or unrelated individuals that have not joined a harem
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a flock.

Engagement Limits (Defence)
Predator Reaction: ⁨Flighty⁩ / ⁨Defensive⁩
Up to 4 Citipati may enter an engagement, these must be from the same harem group. 
Individuals do not defend one another if not in the same harem, preferring to flee and regroup further away.
Citipati always flee from carnivores of Large tier and above – individuals will fight back if cornered but will receive no defenders.

Preferred Diet
Berries, fruit, nuts, roots, flowers, mushrooms, eggs, insects, shellfish, bones.
Will very rarely eat meat, fish, and carrion if no other food is available.

Nesting Limits
🌧️ Rainy Season: 3 🥚 per 3 hours.
☀️ Dry Season: 5 🥚 per 2 hours.
Citipati nest anywhere within their preferred POIs, where they feel safe. Their nests are made out of rocks, reeds, and roots.

Physical Dimorphism
Males are known as roosters, females are known as hens, offspring are known as chicks.
♀️ Hens have a stocker build with shorter feathers, and are more subdued in colour, often featuring grey, cream, and brown.
Suitable female subspecies: jacobsi, osmolskae, khondti
♂️ Roosters have longer head feathers and striking colours, such as bright blue, orange, or red. 
Suitable male subspecies: ganzhouensis
Physical dimorphism for Citipati is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
 
Growing Up
Offspring Behavior
Chicks are able to run about a few moments after hatching, staying very close to their mother.
Imprinting behavior is prevalent in Citipati, they bond strongly to the first individual that they see and follow them closely throughout their childhood.
This is almost always their mother, chicks that hatch from abandoned nests may not be so lucky.
Chicks are playful and inquisitive, investigating everything in their immediate area.
Singing and trying out different calls is common place in Citipati nests, chicks are never quiet, even snoring softly as they sleep!
Their exploration of the world is steeply curbed by their instinctual desire to stay very close to their mother, they very rarely move more than a body length away until reaching the safe age of Adolescent.
On reaching Adolescent, chicks grow in confidence and socialize with other flock members more frequently.
Young roosters start practicing their posturing and courting calls, preening their feathers keenly and hoping to make a good impression on the rest of the flock.
Young hens pick up on mothering instincts from their adult female relatives and start mimicking nurturing behaviors such as carrying around objects, like they might carry a future chick.
At Sub-Adult, Citipati offspring leave the safety of their harem and are no longer considered part of the harem group. Parents are no longer protective over their offspring and push them out to encourage them to find their own harem to join.

Orphaned Behavior
Orphaned chicks within a flock are at extreme risk from other adults in certain situations.
Adults roosters not from the harem, and adult hens with chicks of their own, are aggressive to unrelated chicks that are not protected by their mother.
Adult hens without chicks will readily adopt orphans and raise them as their own, and if the hen is part of a harem, the rooster considers the adopted chick to be his own, and other hens in the harem will protect it.
Orphans without a flock will imprint on the first dinosaur they come across, they will follow them closely and mimic their behaviors, treating them like a parent.
This can have disastrous consequences if the dinosaur is a carnivore.
Orphan chicks up to the age of Adolescent are unaware of the danger that carnivores present and will walk straight up to one in an attempt to seek adoption.
The orphaned chick will mimic their adoptive parent's behavior; following a nocturnal dinosaur around at night, watching hunting behaviour from the bushes, trying to peck at meat from a kill, and trying their best to be a good offspring.
As the chick matures, their Citipati instincts kick in and at Adolescent they will detach from their adoptive parent and leave to search for other Citipati.
A chick raised by a herbivore of another species may continue to stay near them as they mature past Adolescent, but will immediately leave to join a Citipati flock if they come across them.
As an adult, if a Citipati hen was partly-raised by a different species, they may be more inclined to attempt to steal an offspring of this species during broody hen behavior.
 
General Behavior
Citipati are most often found in clearings and open land, where they can spot danger coming.
They enjoy grooming and are meticulous in keeping their plumage clean and free from debris.
Both sand baths and water baths are enjoyable for Citipatis, when they come across sandy earth or shallow water, they crouch low and fluff their feathers to help clean them.
Citipati are never quiet, they love singing and socialising in their flock!
Citipati adore being in the sun and will stretch and bask in the rays whenever possible.
Citipati roosters broadcast loudly when morning breaks, with hens accompanying their song with morning chirps.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Roosters patrol while hens sleep during rest periods, or find high perches to sit on and observe the flock. Hens may also join him on these perches, especially if particularly bonded with the rooster.
However, if hens have offspring, they battle to keep the offspring in nests. This often gives the hens a lot of stress, especially as it goes further into the night and with the more chicks they have. Roosters diligently and carefully help his hens with this process, and preen her often to help release stress.
Citipati may be observed quietly socializing and preening themselves and others at this time. They do not call often, only really resuming their typically chatty tendencies when the rooster broadcasts in the morning.
Roosters may flirt with posturing and gifts, but will not fight each other. Additionally, hens will not steal offspring from each other to avoid stress.
Citipati, especially Citipati chicks, will huddle towards the nearest source of warmth, typically other Citipati in their flock or other species within their mixed species groups.
 
Social Interaction
Citipati are social and live in a flock made up of a mix of unattached adults and small harem groups.
They are vigilant and both genders have strong protective instincts.
Social bonds are built and maintained with grooming behaviours; flock members groom one another to strengthen bonds, particularly within harem groups.
Males in particular enjoy spending time preening their feathers and grooming other members of their harem.
Citipati hens allow roosters to take the lead when moving between areas, letting them focus on vigilance and threat awareness, while hens take care of chicks and keep the flock moving closer together, rather than spread out and scattered.
Citipati enjoy walking and resting closely with members in their harem and with their chicks, and sometimes with other flock members - apart from roosters who only show affection to their hens.
Hens within the same harem form strong bonds between one another, helping each other with chicks, checking in on each other, and remaining close together when moving across the land. 
These bonds can strengthen into almost pair-bonds but a hen is never exclusive with a hen she is bonded to, and the rooster always plays an important role in their social and biological structure. Bringing chicks into the world, and raising them, are the two key focuses of a hen’s nature.
Citipati harems share gestures of reassurance and affection between one another, and are generally peaceful and harmonious. But there are some situations that may cause the harem to break apart. 
If a rooster is inattentive to his hens, or a hen feels like an outsider with the other hens, she may choose to leave the harem and seek out a more suitable rooster.
If a rooster accidentally or purposefully injures or kills one of her chicks (this does not include adoptees of a different species), she will reject the rooster almost immediately. Very rarely, a hen may forgive a rooster’s accidental mistake, but this depends on the personality of the hen in question.
When leaving a harem, the hen faces her rooster and calls loudly in alarm :danger_call:  directly in his personal space, before running from the harem and keeping a firm distance for a short period of time, until the rooster realises what has occurred.
 
Aggressive Interaction
Roosters fighting for hens
Roosters that come to a dispute over hens, for example wishing to add the same hen to their harem, will initiate a dominance fight.
Nearby hens gather to watch from a safe distance.
The roosters face each other off and call aggressively, hissing and displaying their plumage.
They rush forward at each other and launch upwards to deliver a vicious kick.
While maintaining eye contact at all times, they pull back a few steps, ready to launch forward and kick again. Turning away from the opponent is seen as an immediate forfeit.
This is repeated until one member is below half health or until one submits by turning their back to the opponent.
The winning rooster takes a moment to recover, and struts over to his new hen to bond with her.

Chick stealing
If there are no chicks within a hen's harem, hens will start to feel jealous of mothers with chicks in other harems and watch carefully to see if one strays too far from its mother, or if there are any orphan chicks to adopt.
Broody hens will quickly pick up and steal a chick from another harem and run back to their harem, hoping that the mother hasn't noticed.
They will never target chicks that are within a body-length of their mother, and will only try to steal those that are outside of their harem’s protection.
These hens are fiercely defensive of their stolen brood, even going so far as to start a fight with the mother of the chick if she comes to retrieve her wayward child.
Hen fights over stolen chicks consist only of pecking attacks. The mother and broody hen fight viciously until one gives up, or one falls below half health. The losing party may sometimes mourn the loss of the chick for a short time.
Mothers that have chicks stolen from them are more protective if they have a small clutch. If one of many is taken, she may not fight very hard to reclaim it and may allow the thief to keep the child after only a few frustrated pecks.
 
Cross-Species Interaction
Citipati are a flighty species; they are very wary of threats and predators and prefer to keep their distance where possible, and will always flee from danger before acting aggressively if pursued by a Large or higher tier carnivore.
They are tolerant of herbivores, particularly slow moving sauropods which they can sometimes be seen herding with, especially if they don't have chicks at the time. Sauropods tend to be less wary of Citipati than other species as their offspring are usually too large to be forcibly adopted by broody hens.
It’s not unusual to see a Citipati carrying little creatures about, as their nurturing instinct is very strong and sometimes leads to broody hens terrorising unsuspecting Dryosaurus and other young dinosaurs. This isn't necessarily limited to just young dinosaurs - if a Citipati hen can pick it up, that dinosaur will become her baby, whether they like it or not.
Broody hens that have chosen a non-Citi victim are often very insistent in taking care of them and ignore any protests, if they try to escape they are often chased down and picked up again.
Citipati enjoy being in the general proximity of large calm herbivores, while maintaining personal space.
They tend to avoid grumpy or territorial species such as Ceratopsians, who are sometimes unhappy with how loud and flamboyant Citipatis can be.
Citipati are very aware of potential threats, and will keep a safe distance from herds of other species, especially if they have chicks within their flock.
Predator Reaction
Citipati flee from predators of Large tier and above, and will react very quickly if danger is noticed.
Medium or below predators that are solo or in pairs may be aggressively attacked by up to 4 Citipati (from the same harem) if they begin a hunt on the flock. Larger numbers of these predators will trigger a flee response in Citipati.
Mothers call for their chicks to scatter and hide in bushes, while they dart in another direction and attempt to distract the predator, sometimes rushing at a predator to draw attention before luring it away from the chicks.
Harem members stick closely together, if one member within their line of sight is attacked by a predator, the others in the harem will rush to defend it.
Citipati will never defend a harem member if they are being attacked by a carnivore of Large tier and above.
Individuals do not defend one another if not in the same harem, preferring to flee and regroup further away.
Courtship & Parenthood
Citipati form small harem groups with one rooster looking after and courting up to three hens.
Hens are approached by roosters who display a feet stomping, neck waving, hooping call as the interested hen looks on. If she accepts his offer, she steps forward and gives an affectionate call, which he repeats. The two nuzzle one another and shake their feathers.
Females prefer males with bright striking colours and may reject those with dull or dark coloration.
Leucistic and melanistic hens are not treated any differently.
Leucistic and melanistic roosters are not shunned, but it is very unlikely that they will be accepted by a hen.
Hens within a harem stick closely together and spend a lot of time grooming one another, rarely straying further than a few steps away. The rooster watches over his group carefully, and is very alert to any danger.
Roosters that both wish to claim the same hen will sometimes fight one another as detailed in Aggressive Interaction.
Hens that do not have chicks but are within a harem are sometimes approached by rival roosters wishing to draw them away and entice them into forming a new harem, or joining his existing one. 
The rooster in this situation does not tolerate courting behaviour from other roosters with any of his hens. He rushes at the rival and they fight (as detailed in Aggressive Interaction).
If the rival rooster wins the fight, the hen in question now has the option of choosing to leave her harem and join the new rooster, or she may prefer to decline his advances and remain in her existing harem.
A hen with chicks is never courted by another rooster.
Chicks are lovingly raised and nurtured all by the hens within the harem. The rooster is affectionate towards his own offspring, but does not take part in any child rearing behavior. His attention is primarily focussed on protecting and bonding with his hens.
Hens love picking up and carrying their chicks, and may become distressed if they have too many chicks to divide their attention evenly between all of them.
If a hen has multiple chicks, the rooster may choose to pick up and carry chicks around for her, he will focus on a hen who he has bonded with the most and his assistance is greatly valued by the exhausted hen.
Roosters must take care when carrying chicks about, and must stay close to the hen that the chick belongs to. Any aggression, injury, or rough handling of a hen’s chick will outrage the hen and could result in her leaving the harem altogether.
Chicks up to the age of Adolescent that wander away from the protection of their harem are sometimes killed by unrelated roosters - in the hope that a hen without chicks will soon seek to bond with a new rooster.
An exception to this is if an adult hen does not have any chicks, comes across an abandoned or orphan chick, she will immediately adopt it and care for it as her own.
This can result in chicks being "stolen" and adopted by broody unrelated hens.
If a hen adopts an unrelated chick, the rooster within her harem will consider it his own offspring, and other hens in her harem will accept it as a child to protect.
Broody Hens
Hens that have not cared for chicks for a while will start to feel broody.
This means the hen is very eager to raise chicks of her own, and she will start to carry around shells or nuts, or even small creatures of other species (anything they can pick up and carry) and treat them as if they were her child.
The adopted creature of another species is considered her offspring for all intents and purposes and is defended from predators and other Citipati as such.
While the hen is caring for a small creature that she has adopted, she will not nest with a rooster Citipati and will refuse his advances.
As soon as the adopted creature reaches an age where it can no longer be carried with the grab ability, the broody hen will let it go and no longer treat it as a chick; this may be acted out as saying goodbye and moving away, and then ignoring the dinosaur completely.
Some tiny creatures will never “age out” e.g. Psittacosaurus, Compsognathus, Rhamphorhynchus, Dryosaurus, and Deinonychus. After a hen has been caring for one of these species for an extended period of time, the rooster may grow frustrated and choose to take matters into his own hands. Roosters may chase out, or attack and kill these tiny adoptees, ideally while the hen is sleeping or distracted, and hope to encourage her to nest with him soon after.
Hens may be distressed at first, but will overcome their sadness after a short period of time. Roosters may bring their hen gifts of berries or small curiosities to encourage her forgiveness.
Aged-out adopted creatures of a different species may be treated neutrally, but the Citipati who raised it will not continue to show affection or favoritism for it after it is grown.
Broody hens will be overly loving towards chicks within her harem and will help the mother to raise them.
If there are no chicks within her harem, she will start to feel jealous of mothers with chicks in other harems and watch carefully to see if one strays too far from its mother, or if there are any orphan chicks to adopt.
Hens may fight one another if a broody hen tries to steal a wandering chick from its mother, as detailed in Aggressive Interaction.
Elderly & End of Life (Optional)
Citipati that grow old and become elderly spend more and more time resting in the sun, basking in open areas, and taking naps whenever the flock pauses for a moment.
As they age, the social interactions that bring so much color to a flock’s dynamics become less important for the elderly Citipati. They experience hearing loss and without listening to the calls of others, they do not reciprocate and their own voice falls silent over time.
Elderly Citipati rarely have the energy to take part in harem activities. 
Hens will stay in a harem, but lose their fertility and rather than nesting, they spend more time helping their harem-sisters to raise their chicks.
Roosters will struggle to keep up with the demands of harem-life, they do not have the energy or attentiveness that hens prize, and hens will overlook them if they do display themselves to hens. 
If a rooster is challenged by another for a hen, he will always submit to him and very rarely engages with any fighting or aggressive behavior of any nature.
Elderly hens stick to the relationships they have built over their life, and avoid making new acquaintances, preferring to maintain what they already have and relax in the company of familiar individuals.
When a threat presents itself, an Elderly Citipati will struggle to raise the alarm with its silent voice. They remain quick on their feet, but become tired more easily and their stamina wanes with their increasing age. An Elderly Citipati is unfortunately an easy target for a clever predator.
Notes
None

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes):   20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 2400
Adjusted Stats:
- Grab carry cost reduced
- Sprint cost per second reduced
- Carry capacity increased to 1000 from 951
- Movement speed increased
- Stamina jump cost reduced to 3 from 5
 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Profile Overview Video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EAV1vQrj2KA
YouTube
Dynasty Realism
Dynasty Realism: Citipati Profile Overview
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 01:39
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Citipati are Medium Diurnal Terrestrial Herbivores.
Citipati form groups of unlimited Sub/Adults, made up by harems — 1 Rooster and 3 Hens. A flock may have unlimited offspring and adoptees. Only female Citipati adopt, with males attempting to drive out and kill any unrelated chicks under Adolescent.
Citipati are passive.
Citipati can have up to 4 in an engagement, but individuals will only be defended by other members of their harem.
Citipati will flee from Large and above carnivores. Citipati will receive no defenders if hunted by them.
Citipati are very noisy and sociable, constantly cooing and chatting amongst their harem and flock. Roosters crow to greet the sun every morning.
Citipati hens are extremely maternal and may get broody, opting to adopt offspring of different species or carry around small items they treat like their babies.
Roosters, on the other hand, are intolerant of chicks or adoptees unrelated to them, and may eventually attempt to chase out or kill them if given the opportunity.
Harems are very closely bonded groups, and spend a lot of time cleaning, tending to, and watching over one another. Chicks in a harem are communally raised by their mothers’ harem, with even the rooster assisting with hens he is very closely connected to.
Roosters may fight over a choice hen, but hens may also opt to leave a harem of her own accord if he has failed to tend to her or has mishandled one of her chicks.
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?