Hatzegopteryx
    "Hatz", “Hatze”
Hatzegopteryx is a large pterosaur that are fiercely protective - yet deeply affectionate - towards their chosen mates and offspring. After completing spectacular aerial dives at their universal courtship grounds, Hatzegopteryx pair for life, and head out to find and claim a territory to defend together. They specialize in hunting prey they can carry, and dropping them from a height.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Kittyful & Red
Photo: Babble
Profile inspired by golden eagles, marsh harriers and barn owls.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond



3_moderate_hatz.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.09.2025 21:28
Overview
Bild
Large Diurnal Aerial Carnivore
Hatzegopteryx form lifelong pairbonds.
Hatzegopteryx are territorial and claim [large territories.
Hatzegopteryx have an aggressive nature, but are tolerant on Red Island.
Hatzegopteryx are not scavengers.
Hatzegopteryx shun albino and tolerate melanistic individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Hatzegopteryx include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 3 Sub/Adults Hatzegopteryx
Unlimited Offspring
Hatzegopteryx does not adopt.
However, Hatzegopteryx will adopt a maximum of 1 orphaned offspring in a same sex pair.
This group is known as an aerie.

Additionally, up to 3 siblings may group together once they disperse from their birth aerie. They usually stay grouped until each one splits to find a partner.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 3 Sub/Adults
Parents always fiercely defend their grouped offspring, and each other.
Sub-Adult/Adult grouped offspring likewise defend their parents.
Sibling groups will defend each other.

HUNTING LIMIT:
Solo Hatzegopteryx may hunt up to Medium tier.
Exemption: A solo Hatzegopteryx can choose to hunt a solo Quetzalcoatlus if it encounters one.
Hatzegopteryx may hunt up to Large tier when in groups of 2 or more.
Hatzegopteryx may hunt any tier of hatchling or juvenile - even if they are protected by an adult.
Adolescent Hatzegopteryx do not assist with their parents’ hunts.
Solo Adolescent Hatzegopteryx do not hunt other species.

DEFENDING A TERRITORY:
When in a mated pair, Hatzegopteryx claim large territories consisting of an entire POI, and aggressively chase out any other Hatzegopteryx individuals they are not grouped with.
These engagements can turn into a hunt if the other Hatzegopteryx do not leave the territory.
If the pair fail to chase out (or kill) the other Hatzegopteryx, they must leave their territory to claim a new one.
These engagements can happen at any time of day, and can be done at any hunger level.
Hatzegopteryx defend their territories from all other aerial species  and must chase them out upon seeing them. 
Pairs may not begin a hunt with other aerial species in their LOS if they are within their territory.
Only a mated pair claim a territory. Solitary Hatzegopteryx prefer to avoid each other, and do not chase out other Hatzegopteryx or aerials, besides Quetzalcoatlus.

Preferred Prey
Hatzegopteryx hunt and chase out Quetzalcoatlus whenever possible. They cannot co-exist in the same POI as Quetzalcoatlus, and must chase out and kill the Quetzalcoatlus, or leave the POI.
Hatzegopteryx can hunt Quetzalcoatlus at any time of day. This can be done at any hunger level.
Solitary Hatzegopteryx may hunt Quetzalcoatlus.
Hatzegopteryx prefer to hunt whatever they can carry. They have a strong preference for Deinonychus, Latenivenatrix and Utahraptor.
Hatzegopteryx may grab prey mid-flight.
Hatzegopteryx will cannibalize unrelated Hatzegopteryx hatchlings and juveniles.
Hatzegopteryx may grab prey mid-flight.
Hatzegopteryx may not grab prey that is swimming.
 
Hatzegopteryx are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 3 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 1 🥚﻿ per 3 hour.
Hatzegopteryx nest in high up places in their preferred POIs such as cliff faces, hilltops and mountains..
Hatzegopteryx may form same-sex pairs, but may not nest & will adopt a maximum of 1 orphaned offspring.

Physical Dimorphism
This profile does have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Females have dull colors or little contrast on their crests.
♂️ Males have bright flashes of color or high contrast on their crests.
Physical dimorphism for Hatzegopteryx is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
Melanistic individuals are considered female. Melanistic males often experience difficulty finding a mate of the opposite sex, but females suffer no difficulty.
 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Baby Hatzegopteryx, known as chicks, are extremely vulnerable after hatching and require the loving care from their parents to have the strongest chances of survival. They are born wet, blind and deaf, and take several moments to recover from the ordeal of hatching.
Once their eyesight clears and their hearing develops (at around midway through the hatchling stage), chicks imprint on the first adult Hatzegopteryx (or Quetzalcoatlus) that they encounter. In almost all cases, this is their mother or father.
Now aware of their surroundings, chicks huddle close to their siblings if they have any and nestle deep into the warmth of their mother's body. They call out to their parents for affection and happily return it when it is given - which is frequently!
Chicks are relatively quiet in most instances, with or without a parent nearby. However, when one of their parents returns to the nest with food, chicks begin to squawk loudly, competing with their siblings to be the first to eat.
The additional noise is largely unnecessary - Hatzegopteryx chicks live a fairly cushioned life, with parents that dote on them.
Chicks are highly inquisitive, pecking and grabbing at whatever objects that are within reach of them. They can be observed inspecting a wide array of items, and squabbling over especially exciting ones.
Parents choose a favorite chick - which siblings unfortunately notice over time: observing how the favorite is fed first, and given the most attention. Though all Hatzegopteryx offspring get lots of tender loving care, chicks are always desperate to be the favored child with their parents, which leads to displays of over-affection, and offering their parents gifts when able.
Hatzegopteryx, in turn, can become quite possessive of objects they find and fiercely defend them from their siblings, in order to be the one to present it as a gift to their parents.
Chicks that have no siblings have an extremely cushioned life. They get access to all resources from both parents and are fiercely defended. These chicks develop later than those with siblings, and take longer to mature.
Hatzegopteryx chicks are grounded throughout all of the hatchling stage and lack the proper strength in their muscles to take flight. This lasts up until mid juvenile, when they begin flapping their wings and showing more interest in copying their parents.
Chicks that fall from the nesting site before they are able to fly are still lovingly attended by their parents. They tend to remain close to the area they fell from, hiding in bushes or undergrowth and only emerging when a parent returns to bring them food.
As their parents start to notice this willingness to fly, chicks are often snatched up by their mother or father and flown high into the air. From this height, their parents drop them, and chicks instinctively spread their wings and take their first flight.
The first few sessions of flight can be rough for babies, and these clumsy sessions are kept short. However, by adolescence, Hatzegopteryx develop into keen and skilled fliers.
At adolescence, chicks begin flying around their parents' territory. They perform mock attacks on their parents and siblings - swooping down as if they are going to crash into them, and then moving just at the last moment.
This type of play seems to be mutually enjoyed by both parents and siblings, and assists Hatzegopteryx young in developing crucial hunting skills.
At sub-adult, chicks begrudgingly leave their parents' territory. The favored chick may remain with their parents if there is not already an older sibling present, but the rest will disperse - often sticking together until they can find a mate of their own.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned Hatzegopteryx are vulnerable and fragile, and are often completely helpless, as they lack the ability to fly. Chicks are born blind and deaf, and call for parents that never arrive.
As an orphaned Hatzegopteryx grows, their eyes eventually open, and it begins to tentatively explore the world around it, calling softly. When they realise they are alone, or receive no response to their calls, they eventually go quiet.
Orphaned Hatzegopteryx imprint on the adult Hatzegopteryx they find - or even adult Quetzalcoatlus, due to their similarity. They seek comfort from them instinctively, confusing both for a mother or father figure, even if the incorrect species. They seek the sound of wings as a source of comfort.
If the Quetzalcoatlus is hungry enough, or the Hatzegopteryx is not interested in adopting, this often ends in tragedy for the chick.
Orphaned Hatzegopteryx chicks will seek warmth in any way they can achieve it. These chicks flounder in the rain when alone, and call out fearfully, scurrying for shelter and huddling into a corner far from the thunder.
Eventually, towards the end of their juvenile stage - later than their nested peers - orphaned Hatzegopteryx chicks will fall their way into flight, and from there, their lives become much easier.
Orphaned Hatzegopteryx tend to be quieter and more difficult to warm up, having high standards for mates, courting, and nesting. However, after these parents have successfully nested, they are even more so protective of their chicks, keeping them as close as possible as they grow under the nurturing care of a loving parent.
Bild
Hatzegopteryx have an annual migration to Red Island, where unpaired adults flock in large numbers to seek out a mate of their own. 
Even Hatzegopteryx that already have a pair will make this annual migration, keen to witness other pairs forming and temporarily meet up with older offspring from previous clutches.
Those pairs that have an adult offspring with them in their group make special effort to make the flight to Red Island, hopeful that their young will find a mate of their own, even if it means they leave their parents.
This means the pair temporarily give up their territory in order to make the migration. They may or may not choose to claim the same territory again afterwards.
No Hatzegopteryx can claim territory at Red Island, and fights are not engaged in here. Hatzegopteryx do not hunt other Hatzegopteryx in this location.
Hatzegopteryx prefer areas that have dense coverage or lots of rocky, mountainous regions. They enjoy perching in high up places to observe the inhabitants below.
Hatzegopteryx can be observed picking up branches and rocks, and dropping them from a great height. This can be used as a distraction technique against prey while the others in the group prepare to attack - whilst some individuals just seem to enjoy disturbing large and apex species in their territories.
They can be spotted taking brief, cooling baths in shallow pools during the dry season. Hatzegopteryx are careful not to venture into deeper ponds or rivers due to their terrible swimming ability, and the risk of predation from crocodilian species.
At night, Hatzegopteryx prefer to find a high place to rest for the night - ideally somewhere that is inaccessible to terrestrial species.
Solitary Hatzegopteryx remain largely nomadic until they manage to form a pair. They frequent different POIs on the prowl for food, stopping only for short rests and to sleep through the night.
Hatzegopteryx have impeccable eyesight and hearing and can recognize calls from long distances. The slightest noise can rouse them from their sleep in the night, prompting irritated grumbles from the sleepy birds.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Hatzegopteryx do not fly for far distances at night, but may do so to find AI corpses and bones to feed from, or critters to hunt.
Hatzegopteryx pairs with offspring take turns going to hunt for their offspring; this looks different for every pair, but neither individual stays up the whole night.
Hatzegopteryx prefer to find high places to rest. They are at their most vulnerable when sleeping, so these roosting spots are fiercely protected, and commonly the same places a pair nests within their territory.
 
Bild
✦ Aeries & Pairings
Hatzegopteryx are a social species, but selective on who they lavish their attention on. They bond very closely with their partner, showing high levels of affection which includes preening, soft coos and cuddling in close.
Pairs - and pairs with an adult offspring in their grouping (aeries) - share kills with each other, with no hierarchy on who gets to eat first. Food is shared between them equally.
Grooming and preening each other is an activity that takes up a lot of time for Hatzegopteryx. Both individuals seem to find the experience enjoyable and - where there are more than 2 in the group - sessions of group preening takes place, with all individuals huddled together to nibble at each other's feathers.
Hatzegopteryx are emotional and bond deeply with both their partner and all offspring they produce - with the exception of albinos. During their annual migration to Red Island, Hatzegopteryx enjoy seeking out the company of their former chicks, and show them great affection. This is in stark contrast to when they patrol and maintain their territories - where even previous offspring will be chased out.
✦ Solitary Behavior
When solitary, Hatzegopteryx largely avoid others of their kind until they form a pair. They do not claim territory, and do not chase out others of their kind or other aerial species, with the exception of Quetzalcoatlus.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Albino individuals are universally shunned by all Hatzegopteryx - including their parents. Albino chicks will be ignored by their parents or abandoned entirely if they are the only chick in the nest, and do not have food provided for them.
Albinos that make it to adulthood may never find a partner - even from another albino. They too make the same courtship migration to Red Island, hopeful to find another, but face consistent disappointment, leading to a highly lonely existence.
Adults ignore albinos, never forming partnerships with them and driving them out of their territories. Albinos do not understand that they are albino, and find the treatment they receive to be confusing. Ironically, they also treat other albinos in the same way.
Melanistics, meanwhile, face little issue when it comes to forming pairs. Females are happily accepted as mates, but males seeking an opposite-sex pair may find difficulty during courtship. Melanistic males interested in a same-sex pair struggle due to being perceived as female by other individuals.
 
Bild
Hatzegopteryx - once paired - are highly aggressive to all other Hatzegopteryx once they form territories.
The only exception to this is the migration to Red Island, where Hatzegopteryx are largely tolerant towards each other.
They immediately chase out other Hatzegopteryx from their territories, leading this into a hunt if the other Hatzegopteryx do not leave the POI. These "challenges" are engaged upon with the owners of the territory swooping in with aggressive calls, and attacking immediately. There is no grace period during a territory challenge for Hatzegopteryx.
If the other Hatzegopteryx fights back, or refuses to leave, the group will become more aggressive in their attacks, killing the other if at all possible. They will not give up pursuing until the individual (or group) leaves the POI.
If the group becomes severely injured, they may choose to flee and abandon their territory, leaving the POI for another entirely, rather than risk death.
If the group has offspring that cannot fly, both parents will take one baby each and carry them to the new location. If they have an adult offspring with them, this offspring will assist in carrying an additional chick. They will return afterwards to try and collect any babies that had to get left behind, but often return when it is too late.
Hatzegopteryx do not swap mates and do not engage in challenges for a mate, except at Red Island, where the challenge will be started before a pair is formed.
When solitary, Hatzegopteryx largely avoid others of their kind until they form a pair. They do not claim territory, and do not chase out others of their kind or other aerial species, with the exception of Quetzalcoatlus.
Bild
✦ Other Aerials
Hatzegopteryx are aggressive towards all Aerial species, including Rhamphorhynchus, Thalassodromeus, Tropeognathus, Quetzalcoatlus, and even other Hatzegopteryx when in a mated pair. They view all other aerials as a threat to their resources and nests, and therefore fiercely push them out of their territory upon seeing them.
When solitary, Hatzegopteryx do not actively chase out these species, except Quetzalcoatlus.
✦ Quetzalcoatlus
Hatzegopteryx will not tolerate the other large flier, Quetzalcoatlus, at any stage in its growth. They view Quetzalcoatlus as prey and baby stealers, and the fiercely parental Hatzegopteryx shriek and call loudly, using their brute size and aerial maneuvers to bludgeon Quetzalcoatlus out of the sky.
Quetzalcoatlus is never tolerated by Hatzegopteryx. Hatzegopteryx cannot exist in the same POI as Quetzalcoatlus. If spotted in the same POI, Hatzegopteryx will attempt to drive the Quetzalcoatlus out or hunt it if able - this can be done even during the night, and at any hunger level. Pairs that have territory and fail to drive out or hunt Quetzalcoatlus must move to a different POI and claim new territory.
If the pair have young unable to fly, they may carry their young to a new location. As only two parents can carry at a time (or three if an adult offspring is present in the group), other chicks are left behind - and promptly savaged by the Quetzalcoatlus. If the chicks can survive long enough, parents always return to try and carry them to the new nesting location.
✦ Rhamphorhynchus
Rhamphorhynchus and Thalassodromeus are viewed as easy hunts for younger and inexperienced Hatzegopteryx, but can also be seen as risky, as the smaller and nimbler Rhamphorhynchus can take a Hatzegopteryx out of the sky by jumping onto its back.
Hatzegopteryx, therefore, attempt to drive out or kill Rhamphorhynchus if it flies into their territory during their active hours. However, if woken by a Rhamphorhynchus in the night, Hatzegopteryx may chase it out - or kill it if able.
✦ Thalassodromeus
Hatzegopteryx also hunt or drive out Thalassodromeus from their territory during active hours.
✦ Tropeognathus
The coast-and-sea-dwelling Tropeognathus can pose a risk for young Hatzegopteryx, as they enjoy shoving Hatzegopteryx chicks from the nest with a single beat of their wings. Due to this, Hatzegopteryx avoid nesting on cliffsides in coastal regions, and will aggressively hunt or chase any Tropeognathus out of their territory on sight, during active hours.
✦ Dromeosaurids (Raptors)
While Hatzegopteryx will hunt just about anything, they have a strong preference for raptors such as Deinonychus, Latenivenatrix, and Utahraptor.
Hatzegopteryx who hunt these raptors can be considered great hunters, and therefore prime mates. Freshly made pairs will often fly to Whistling Columns, where Utahraptors can be seen en masse performing their own courting, and may attempt to hunt a Utahraptor together. If they succeed, a lifelong bond is far more likely to develop between the pair.
Hatzegopteryx have to be careful of others of their species that may have claimed territory here, and can only do so if hungry.
Solitary Hatzegopteryx - keen to avoid others of their kind except when courting - prefer to avoid Whistling Columns if there are others nearby, never knowing if they are encroaching on territory and thus could face aggression.
Hatzegopteryx happily swoop down into a pack of Deinonychus and pick the most brightly colored of the bunch to swoop up into the air with. Deinonychus are viewed as delicacies, and are presented as treats to mates and chicks.
Hatzegopteryx enjoy terrorizing Latenivenatrix, dropping them from great heights. While one Hatzegopteryx will pick up the Latenivenatrix, the others will wait their turn to swoop down and catch it from the air until the terror or the repeated clamps kill it.
✦ Scavengers
Hatzegopteryx do not tolerate scavengers.
Bild
Hatzegopteryx specialize in hunting smaller prey that they are able to grab. This is always their primary target and preferred method of hunting, only choosing larger prey they cannot pick up if there is nothing else available.
Hatzegopteryx may swoop down from the skies and clamp their prey mid-flight, though some will land fully before grasping their victims.
Hatzegopteryx - when clamping their prey - immediately fly as high as they can into the sky before releasing their victim to the ground, hoping the impact from the fall kills or at least severely wounds them - and swoop in to finish the job if not.
Hatzegopteryx happily descend on heavily wounded prey, and hatchling or juvenile offspring of any tier - preferring easier kills where possible.
When grouped, Hatzegopteryx gain confidence from the other members and may try their luck at hunting larger prey, though it is not a guaranteed meal, as their heavy bodies are not built for running long distances or carrying heavy prey for long periods at a time.
The more experienced an aerie is, the more easily they communicate during hunts, chirping excitedly if they spot their prey is getting weary. Though - if the hunt changes in the prey's favor or one of them gets increasingly hurt, they will back off, not willing to risk each other's lives for a simple meal. Whether the hunt succeeds or not, the group come together afterwards and dote on each other, tending to their wounds.
Up to 3 Sub/Adult Hatzegopteryx may engage.
Bild
✦ Courtship
Hatzegopteryx migrate to Red Island when they are ready to seek a mate, either in a flock with the rest of their siblings or independently. While it might not be immediate upon adulthood, all Hatzegopteryx will fly to Red Island at some point in their life, if not only to observe. This includes mated pairs that have already found their partner.
Male Hatzegopteryx are the ones to initiate courting. They initially find a high up place to roost and begin calling loudly. These calls are loud and shrill, but are seemingly attractive to females, who observe them carefully.
With more than one male in the area, males sometimes engage in combat with one another, much to the delight of the watching females. This is initiated with much posturing and aggressive calling, before both males take to the skies, where they swoop and dive at one another, landing heavy attacks by slamming their bodies against each other.
The loser is the first one to reach half health, or to leave the air and land somewhere - whether that is by crash landing, or safely gliding down to perch. 
Males that win these battles are seen as extremely attractive by females, and have a much higher chance of securing a mate.
Loser males, however, lose a lot of social status after losing one of the aerial courtship battles, and are largely overlooked by most females. They may redeem themselves by attempting another aerial battle against another male, or are destined to be one of the last to be picked by females.
Appreciative females approach the winner of the aerial contest, affectionately calling at him and hovering in the air above him so that he can admire her. If a male has multiple females interested in him, all of them will circle above him, gliding gracefully through the sky.
Then - it is reliant on the female to impress him - by bringing him a gift. These can be the scraps of a hunt, critters, or shiny and interesting items.
The male will choose his potential mate based upon the gift that she brings him. Picking up the gift she gave him, he will take to the skies - where the female immediately lifts off to join him.
The pair fly together in sync in an almost choreographed dance. They climb up to a great height, and then suddenly dive together, hurtling themselves towards the ground and only stopping just before they crash.
Pairs where one or both individuals crash into the ground dissolve immediately, with both Hatzegopteryx (or just one, if the other died on impact) returning back to seek courtship in another potential partner.
Once this first initial joint flight is completed, the pair spend time grooming and showing affection to one another. Afterwards, they leave and head back to the mainland, in order to scout out a good location to claim as territory together and build a nest.
Those interested in same sex pairs court somewhat differently. They instead fly high above the lake in Red Island, calling out and showing their prowess in a combination of swoops and dives.
Interested individuals observe them at first, before flying up to circle around them, calling affectionately.
If the other accepts, they too will climb high up into the air to perform the very first courtship dive. If successful, and with no injured parties, the new pair will form and settle somewhere to show affection, before leaving the island to claim territory.
✦ Nesting
Hatzegopteryx always choose to nest somewhere that is either inaccessible to terrestrial dinosaurs, or otherwise very difficult for them to access. This results in the majority of Hatzegopteryx nests being built on top of cliffs, mountains and rocky areas.
Hatzegopteryx lovingly construct nests together before the mother lays her eggs. They decorate their nests with leaves, bones, and shrubbery in order to preserve warmth for their chicks, and will often try to find a place sheltered from the rain to minimize the chance for them to freeze to death.
Once the nest is built, the female is responsible for the vast majority of brooding over the eggs - which is aided by the male bringing her food, and taking over brooding responsibilities while she leaves to get water. However, she is always quick to return, and shuffles him back out of her spot.
As chicks start to hatch from their eggs, both parents spend an incredible amount of time preening them, nuzzling them and cuddle in close to keep them warm. The mother primarily opts to brood over them, while the male flies off to hunt and bring back food.
✦ Parenthood
Hatzegopteryx parents are doting and affectionate with all their chicks, but do grow to select a favorite.
Both parents always pick the same chick as their favorite. They make sure to feed the favorite chick first, and show it the most affection, but are still loving and affectionate to all of their chicks.
Chicks will work hard to be considered the favorite, by giving gifts and generally being affectionate with their parents. The role of 'favorite' can change over time, but is a firm choice once the chicks hit adolescence.
This favorite child is usually the one from the clutch that stays behind with their parents if they do not already have an older sibling in the group.
Albino offspring, sadly, are neglected by both parents. They do not get brought food, and are not shown affection. If an albino chick is the only one in the clutch, both parents may abandon it and the nest entirely.
In the event one (or more) of the chicks falls from the nest and manages to survive, parents will fly down to attend that offspring and bring it food and affection. They will continue to do this until their chick is able to fly - and at which point, it will be expected to return to the nest by itself.
Hatzegopteryx parents watch their chicks closely. When the mother leaves the nest to get water, the father makes sure to stay with his chicks at the nest. They prefer never to leave chicks unattended, and get stressed if both parents have to get called away at the same time.
In the event where eggs hatch but only one parent has survived, that parent eagerly endeavours to provide for their chicks, but end up struggling to provide for themselves and the demands of hungry chicks at the same time. Chicks are often left unattended while the parent flies off to hunt and bring food back, and are at a higher risk of predation.
When parents start to notice their chicks hopping and flapping their wings, both of them will pick up a chick and fly high into the air before dropping it, forcing their offspring to take to flight.
If for some reason a chick’s wings don’t catch, Hatzegopteryx parents will land and fuss over their chicks, nuzzling them and affectionately calling to them before picking them back up in their beak and returning them to the nest. They will, in these circumstances, wait another day before they encourage the chick to fly again.
As chicks continue to grow, chicks will do mock attacks and dives at their parents and siblings. Chicks who excel in this area will be the most favored by their parents, even if speckled with gifts from other chicks.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Once their chicks reach adulthood, they will be affectionately dismissed, with parents working together to feed their chicks one final time before they disperse. Their favored child will remain with them beyond this point if there is not already an older sibling in the group, and is allowed to remain a good chunk into their adulthood - or until they leave willingly to find a mate of their own.
Parents eagerly seek out their former chicks during annual migrations to Red Island. Though they are otherwise aggressive towards them when maintaining a territory - these annual occurrences provide a rare opportunity for families to meet again, and they tend to show each other high levels of affection.
When an adult offspring is present with their parents and the parents nest again, the older sibling will assist their parents in bringing food and watching over their younger siblings.
✦ Adoption
Same sex pairs are unable to nest and have offspring, but may adopt orphaned young they find in their territories that are below adolescent. They will only adopt one chick at a time. These prospective parents will construct an elaborate nest and pick up the orphan with their beaks before gingerly carrying it over to place in the nest.
Same sex pairs will take brooding responsibility over their solitary chick in turns - with one individual leaving to hunt and bring back food, while the other watches over and keeps the chick warm.
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.09.2025 21:35
Hatzegopteryx do not have many physical differences as they grow older, but may tire quicker when flying and spend less time patrolling their territory for threats. Time spent flying is reduced to shorter bursts, and elderly individuals will universally opt for easier prey.
Solitary elderly individuals unfortunately tend to die a lot sooner than those in pairs. A life spent alone is very hard on Hatzegopteryx, and colder nights are felt more bitterly without a significant other.
When one half of a pair dies, the other falls into a significant mourning period. Their grief is palatable, with the individual letting out miserable calls, sitting perched for longer periods, and losing their appetite.
The longer a pair have been together, the harder the grieving process will be for the widowed mate. In extreme circumstances, some individuals quickly pass after the sudden death of their loved one - perhaps through a combination of not eating and the strain it places on them emotionally.
Bild
If a pair fails to produce viable eggs, or has chicks that die frequently - or simply fail to mesh personalities well, they dissolve their partnership amicably, and return to Red Island next courting season to find a new mate.
Otherwise, all other pairings develop into lifelong pairbonds.
Hatzegopteryx are only territorial towards other aerial creatures in their territory. They do not drive out other carnivores or herbivores.
Bild
Quetzalcoatlus is never tolerated by Hatzegopteryx. Hatzegopteryx cannot exist in the same POI as Quetzalcoatlus. If spotted in the same POI, Hatzegopteryx will attempt to drive the Quetzalcoatlus out or hunt it if able - this can be done even during the night, and at any hunger level. Pairs that have territory and fail to drive out or hunt Quetzalcoatlus must move to a different POI and claim new territory.
Hatzegopteryx may hunt other players if 75% or below hunger in the courtship grounds.

RULE EXEMPTIONS
Hatzegopteryx hunting or driving out Quetzalcoatlus do not abide by 1.4 and 4.1, 4.2
Hatzegopteryx in pairs or trios driving out other Hatzegopteryx do not abide by 1.4, 6.7, and 4.1, 4.2
Hatzegopteryx awoken by Rhamphorhynchus  do not abide by 1.4 when chasing it out or hunting it.
Hatzegopteryx may hunt any hatchling or juvenile, even if it is protected. 1.10.1
Hatzegopteryx will hunt any unrelated hatchling or juvenile Hatzegopteryx. 8.4
Hatzegopteryx are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 21:27
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 02:28
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Hatzegopteryx are Large Diurnal Aerial Carnivores.
Hatzegopteryx can group up to 3 sub/adults, unlimited offspring. Hatzegopteryx do not adopt, unless in a same sex pair, where they will adopt a maximum of 1 offspring at a time.
Hatzegopteryx are aggressive, but are tolerant on Red Island.
Hatzegopteryx can have up to 3 in an engagement. Hatzegopteryx can have up to 3 in a hunting party.
Hatzegopteryx may hunt up to Medium tier when solo, and up to Large tier when in a group of 2 or more. Hatzegopteryx may not scavenge.
Hatzegopteryx are fearsome aerial carnivores that form lifelong pairbonds and bond very strongly to their mate.
Their hunting style is unique to them - preferring prey that they can pick up and carry. They select their prey and clamp them, before flying high into the air to drop them, hopefully causing their prey severe injury or death.
Hatzegopteryx migrate annually to Red Island for courtship, where others of their kind are uniquely tolerant of each other. Red Island is where all new pairs are formed. Individuals that are already paired still make the migration to Red Island, enjoying watching the new courtship displays, and catching up with their own previous offspring.
Hatzegopteryx are typically very loving and caring parents. They end up selecting a favorite child in a clutch together, with which they prioritize and lavish the most care and affection on - but all chicks within the clutch are treated tenderly, even those that fall from the nest before they can fly.
Once chicks are grown, they disperse from their parents' group into sibling groups. The favorite child stays behind with their parents if there is room, only leaving when they find a mate of their own.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-40-50-70 = 180 total
Combat Weight: 3100
Adjusted Stats:
- Carry capacity increased to 2350 from 2100
- Increased health from 575 to 600
 
Courtship Video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9MNnB7f9U3U
YouTube
Dynasty Realism
Hatzegopteryx Courtship | Dynasty Realism
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?