Tropeognathus
Tropeognathus originated from the Romualdo Formation in Brazil, dating back to the Early Cretaceous period around 112 million years ago. This large pterosaur had an impressive wingspan of up to 8.5 meters (28 feet) and is thought to have been a proficient flyer, inhabiting coastal regions and open seas. With its long, toothed jaws and distinctive keel-like crest, Tropeognathus specialized in a diet of fish, diving into the water to snatch prey with precision. Its lifestyle was likely social, with flocks congregating along shorelines or nesting in cliffs, much like modern seabirds.

⁨
Author: Kittyful, with inspirations from Toxonomy & firbeos
Photo: Byuul
Profile inspired by the original Walking With Dinosaurs documentary "Ornithocheirus", Cormorant, Sandpipers, Seagulls
⁩

image.png

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 22.12.2024 01:03
Overview
Details
Small Cathemeral Aerial Carnivore
Tropeognathus hunts exclusively at night, but may perform all other activities at any time of day.
Tropeognathus form harem bonds.
Tropeognathus are nomadic.
Tropeognathus have a tolerant nature.
Tropeognathus may scavenge from claimed corpses at their own risk. Critters and abandoned corpses may be freely eaten.
Tropeognathus tolerate albino and melanistic individuals.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Unlimited Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a cluster.


Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 4 Tropeognathus may enter an engagement, challenge or a hunt.
Dominant and adult males are the first to rally to the defence of others, but females with close bonds to others may also opt to defend.
Offspring under Sub-Adult are excluded from this restriction and parents will always defend their targeted young.
Tropeognathus may use water to their advantage. They can attack in water, and use water to evade their attackers.
Adolescent Tropeognathus can assist with their parents’ hunts, up to the limit of 4.
Solo Adolescent Tropeognathus may attempt to hunt up to Small tier.

Preferred Prey/Diet
Tropeognathus may hunt up to Medium tier. However, they only hunt healthy species at night.
Tropeognathus may also hunt lone Hatzegopteryx and lone Quetzalcoatlus in a group of 3 or more members.
Tropeognathus may hunt any tier of hatchling or juvenile at any time of day, even if protected by an Adult.
Tropeognathus hunt Thalassodromeus at any opportunity, regardless of hunger requirements. They may only do so in their preferred POIs.
Tropeognathus especially enjoy hunting Lurdusaurus, who frequent similar POIs to Tropeognathus.
Tropeognathus do not hunt Rhamphorhynchus, but will aggress them away from their food.
Tropeognathus prefer, ultimately, to exist on a diet of fish and shellfish. They spend the entirety of their lives in coastal and sea-based regions, and are adept fishers. However, they are not opposed to hunting at opportunistic moments.
Tropeognathus will also eat bones, fruit and insects when fish or meat is not available.
Tropeognathus do not willingly cannibalize others, but are not wasteful, and happily consume the bodies of any fallen groupmates.
Tropeognathus may attempt to scavenge kills made and owned by other carnivores at their own risk.
Tropeognathus do not tolerate scavengers, and will readily swoop and peck to chase them away.
Tropeognathus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 1 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
Due to poor physical health, Albino individuals are infertile in the Dry Season. In the Rainy season, they can only produce 1 egg.
Tropeognathus nest at Ocean Pillars communally, with multiple females constructing nests close together close to - or in - the water. Their nests are decorated with reeds and shells and are constructed out of kelp, rock and branches.

Physical Dimorphism
♀️ Females have duller colors.
♂️ Males have brighter flashes of color - typically around their beaks.
Both melanistic & albino individuals are considered female.
Physical dimorphism for Tropeognathus is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
 
Growing Up
Offspring Behavior
Baby Tropeognathus, known as fledglings, are born relatively confident and begin screaming for food as soon as they gather their senses after emerging from the egg.
Able to walk within a very short period after hatching, fledglings are rambunctious, eagerly breaking out into a run for short periods, and chasing after their siblings and other fledglings at the nesting grounds.
Though this playful - and sometimes irritating - behavior can lead them to stray from their nests, they are quick to return once they spot their mother returning with food for them.
Fledglings playfight near endlessly with any other individual that will tolerate them. This is usually others of the same age - whether siblings or not - and adult males. Adult females tend to ignore the constant bickering, and fledglings quickly learn not to mess with their mothers.
Tropeognathus - unlike many other species of pterosaur - do not imprint on an individual or parents, and will beg for food from the nearest adult of their species. However, they instinctively seem to recognize their mothers, who they direct the majority of their pestering towards.
Those that are unfortunate enough to lose their mothers will quickly seek to find a surrogate, aiming to push their way into another nest and become adopted.
Tropeognathus begin hopping and jumping very shortly after hatching. This helps strengthen their muscles and is a major part of play for young fledglings. Though they do not begin flight during the hatchling stage, this excitable energy helps to prepare them for lift off.
By juvenile, fledgling Tropeognathus begin to practice flight. Being raised in a coastal region with high winds - this is a far easier feat for this aerial species than it is for some others. Usually fledglings take one or two attempts to feel brave enough to take off - but once they learn that they can, they develop new aerial skills quickly and efficiently.
Fledglings are fairly competitive with one another and very pushy and bold. When one fledgling begins to start attempting flight, it drives all others within line of sight to imitate - often resulting in a whole batch of fledglings learning to fly at the same time.
Around the same time that they learn flight is when fledglings begin to start exploring the ocean around them. This is sometimes incidental - for example, being blown into the water during flight - but otherwise deliberate - observing as the other adults in the cluster dive into the water and wishing to copy them.
Fledglings quickly grow to be adept at both swimming and flying, and thoroughly enjoy dive bombing one another - and bemused adults(!) - and grabbing various items from the seafloor to keep as treasures.
Once all fledglings approach adolescence, the adults in the cluster begin to travel again, leaving the familiarity of their nesting grounds to move back along the coast. Fledglings happily follow the rest of the adults, keen to keep up and be perceived as active members of the collective group.
Fledglings continue to bother their mother for food even when they are more than capable of providing for themselves - a behavior that extends right up until they turn Adult. Mothers may or may not indulge these fledglings, with some preferring to encourage independence from a much earlier age, while others are happy to provide for their offspring for as long as possible.
Orphaned Behavior
Orphaned Tropeognathus tend to fare decently well compared to other aerial species. If hatched on the communal nesting grounds with other adults and offspring, the orphan usually wiggles its way towards a mother with a smaller clutch, and more often than not gets adopted and provided for.
However, if hatching entirely alone - orphaned Tropeognathus still have a decent chance of survival, driven entirely by their bold and curious nature, and instincts to take to both the air and water.
Orphaned fledglings will still meet all the same milestones as those raised with parents - but orphaned Tropeognathus will leave Ocean Pillars much sooner if hatched there alone, in the pursuit of others of their kind.
General Behavior
Tropeognathus group in large numbers along coastal regions in Gondwa.
They are adept at both fishing and flying - often spotted diving in and out of the water with the ability to fly even when drenched.
Tropeognathus are highly opportunistic, opting to divebomb a claimed corpse when they spot one, regardless of whatever predator has it. This is often the main cause of their own demise, as many carnivores do not take kindly to these rude pterosaurs.
Tropeognathus spend approximately half of their lives in water, half of their lives in the sky, and on land for all other times. They are very active pterosaurs, and enjoy being on the move - often getting restless if grounded for too long.
Tropeognathus take great interest in following around terrestrial and semi-aquatic species. They are not fussy on whether they follow herbivores or carnivores - enjoying pursuing whatever creature is nearby that might provide them entertainment or food.
Tropeognathus are nowhere near as vocal as other pterosaurs - namely Rhamphorhynchus and Thalassodromeus. They are quieter by nature, reserving loud vocalizations for more extreme - or exciting - situations.
Tropeognathus seem to thrive in any aquatic environment. They can be frequently observed dipping in and out of the ocean and freshwater and splashing around in the waves on coastal regions.
Rain, in particular, seems to perk up their moods, prompting more energetic aerial displays and contented chirping between individuals.
Tropeognathus bathe and swim more frequently in the Dry Season, disliking the drier conditions. They will, however, bask for short periods of time, extending their wings to dry them out in the sun.
Tropeognathus sleep for short bursts throughout night and day. They prefer to sleep somewhere surrounded by water - ideally a rock, small island, or coastal cliffside - and take it in turns when in a group so that someone is always watching over the others.
Tropeognathus especially enjoy picking up shells and crustaceans from either the ocean floor or along the coast. They take these objects high into the sky before dropping them, letting them smash on the ground below to crack them open for a tasty meal.
Albino Tropeognathus are typically weaker individuals in comparison to others of their kind. They fly for much shorter periods, and try to stay in shaded areas during the day to help protect their sensitive eyes and skin. They - essentially - are forced into a more nocturnal lifestyle.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Tropeognathus are typically less active during the daytime, where they will find rocks and cliffsides to temporarily construct nests where they will rest.
Males may practice courtship performances at this time, while females preen themselves and socialize with those they have bonded with.
Some males may use the time where the flock sleeps to practice sparring - which often is interrupted by frustrated females who are trying to sleep, especially if offspring are present.
Females will cluster together when roosting, and males will hover around the outskirts, to act as the first line of defense as well as to be the first to alert to potential threats.
 
Social Interaction
Tropeognathus seem to gather in large numbers instinctively, with vast swarms of these pterosaurs being a common sight to behold in particularly fruitful coastal regions.
Tropeognathus have a loose overall hierarchy in a cluster - with the most dominant individual - typically a young, bold male - bullying the others to take prime position when it comes to roosting spots, choosing a partner, and getting first dibs on a kill.
Tropeognathus form very loose relationships with others. Females tend to bond more closely with a couple of individuals - usually relatives - whereas males keep a more aloof approach to other males in a group.
Males will, however, show affection towards females, especially nearing courting.
Tropeognathus individuals roost fairly close to one another when taking naps, with females and young aiming to shuffle more tightly into the middle of a group, and males flanking the outskirts.
They enjoy playing together - with females and males both performing aerial displays and dives, and chasing after one another in the sky. 
Fledglings in particular adore this type of play, but mothers tend to remain more serious with their young and refuse to engage in this play with them, much to their disappointment. This is very unlike adult males, who can sometimes be too rough in their over excitement, resulting in a chick's frightened squawks.
Particularly dominant males - who have proven themselves as exemplary hunters, fishers and defenders - tend to gather many admirers, both male and female alike. During rest periods these admirers flock towards the male, preening and cooing affectionately at him.
Tropeognathus generally tolerate albino and melanistic individuals, though albino males struggle the most to attract a mate during courting. Females suffer no such struggle, with males happy to court almost any female that will accept him.
Aggressive Interaction
Tropeognathus often bicker over food. Dominant males are the first to push themselves to the front of the queue when hungry, and rapidly move others out of the way with well-aimed pecks to ensure they get the choice cuts of meat.
Females and chicks usually back down when faced with a dominant male like this, though do let out various screeches to show they are upset.
Males, however, are much more likely to become aggressive when faced with this rude behavior, resulting in it escalating to an aerial battle between the two males - only stopping when one reaches half health and forfeits.
Tropeognathus generally welcome any and all other Tropeognathus into their cluster when they encounter them, and aggression is usually reserved for specific instances - such as around food, offspring, and courting.
More information on aggression during courtship & parenthood can be found under Courtship & Parenthood.
 
Cross-Species Interaction
Tropeognathus are largely curious of any terrestrial species that cross their path, and are prone to harassment of these species when they discover them.
Herbivorous species are pursued and harassed - with air snaps common as they fly around them, hoping to provoke a chase for their own amusement. This does not always signify a hunt - and often herbivores much larger than they can comfortably hunt are tormented in this way.
Herbivores that retaliate with aggression - or worse, ignore them - are quickly left alone, with Tropeognathus moving on to other species of interest.
Tropeognathus has no interest in annoying sleeping dinosaurs, and ignores them unless actively hunting.
Carnivores, meanwhile, tend to be followed with less aggression, with Tropeognathus wary of the potential danger behind a sharp set of teeth or claws.
Often, carnivores can quickly tire of Tropeognathus following them overhead, due to the potential of the pterosaurs spoiling hunting opportunities for them by revealing their location. If met with aggression by these carnivores, Tropeognathus is quick to leave.
Tropeognathus are wary especially of many semi-aquatic species, but especially Deinosuchus & Sarcosuchus. They avoid these species as much as possible, recognizing the potential threat they pose to fishing Tropeognathus.
Tropeognathus do not routinely attempt to hunt Hatzegopteryx or Quetzalcoatlus unless they are in a group of 3 or more, but are particularly fond of feasting on their young. They use their wings to try and toss these offspring out of their nests - hopefully to their deaths below.
Tropeognathus, however, quickly back down if met with aggression by the parents of these larger species. Unguarded chicks are always the priority target.
Tropeognathus - when hunting healthy adults of these species - prefer to target lone individuals. They do not attempt these risky hunts unless they are in a group of 3 or 4 adults.
Tropeognathus readily hunt Thalassodromeus whenever the opportunity arises - but only within the Tropeognathus’ preferred POI. Though these species rarely cross paths - with Thalassodromeus preferring to remain inland, and Tropeognathus traveling the coastal regions - Tropeognathus seem to relish in attacking these other pterosaurs, and will do so regardless of hunger requirements or time of day. Outside of a preferred POI, Thalassodromeus is sometimes harassed but never hunted.
Tropeognathus especially enjoy hunting Lurdusaurus. These semi-aquatic herbivores are a reasonable size for Tropeognathus to attempt to hunt, and usually frequent similar environments to Tropeognathus. The Lurdusaurus' usual defence of diving into the water does little to protect against Tropeognathus, who can effectively swim after them to continue their hunts.
Rhamphorhynchus are surprisingly one of the few smaller creatures not hunted by Tropeognathus. Instead, Tropeognathus seem to actually tolerate these species - so long as they do not attempt to scavenge from their meals - and may sometimes engage in playful behaviors with them.
Rhamphorhynchus that attempt to scavenge from Tropeognathus' meals get pecked at and chased away. Though Tropeognathus will not hunt Rhamphorhynchus, they may kill them (even accidentally) if this smaller pterosaur does not respect their boundaries with food.
 
Hunting Strategy
Tropeognathus are highly opportunistic, and do not like to waste their efforts on a hunt if there are ample scavenging opportunities nearby.
However - Tropeognathus do hunt - but do so only at night, when their targets are more likely to be sleeping or resting.
When a target is spotted, a group of up to 4 Tropeognathus work together to take down their prey - often taking it in turns to launch forward and aim nasty pecks at their prey, before darting out of the way for a group member to land the next bite.
Tropeognathus may use aerial abilities to deliver attacks to their prey, whether terrestrial or aerial.
If the target is near a cliff edge, Tropeognathus may attempt to knock them off with a well placed flap of their wings.
Tropeognathus tend to work together to circle around their prey, clacking their beaks to unnerve and disorient them. This sharp, rapid sound creates a sense of panic and confusion, enabling individuals to dive in and deliver swift nips to their backs or flanks, aiming to wear them down over time.
When targeting rival pterosaurs like Thalassodromeus, Tropeognathus employ a daring aerial maneuver: they soar above their target, then dive and execute a barrel roll, ramming into the opponent with their robust wings and heavy body. This powerful strike often sends rivals spiraling out of the sky, leaving them easy prey.
Tropeognathus never hunt Hatzegopteryx or Quetzalcoatlus unless these large pterosaurs are solo, and Tropeognathus has 3 or 4 adult members in its hunting party.
 
Courtship & Parenthood
Tropeognathus instinctively migrate to Ripple Beach when wanting to breed, and usually do so in a large group.
Courtship is only done during the daytime, with the night reserved for other pursuits - such as hunting.
Males locate a suitable patch of sand in the dappled ocean ponds, and begin clacking their beaks together. The beak clacking is accompanied with raising and spreading of their wings, before finally they lift their heads to croon out a low, rumbling song.
These noises continue in a cycle, with the male occasionally turning in his spot to continue his display from all angles, and adding additional wing stretches to highlight his impressive physique.
The more central the location on the beach, the more attractive the male will appear to the females. Multiple males thus push and shove each other to get the prime coveted position,  which can lead to escalations into vicious fights.
If two males refuse to move aside for the other, they may begin aggressive calling, squawking, flashing out their wings and finally pecking at the other.
When it is clear neither will back down, both males will take off to the sky and begin swooping and diving at each other aggressively, landing heavy attacks by slamming their bodies against each other during flight.
These aerial battles continue until one of them reaches half health - marking this male as the loser, and thus the one who has to give up his position.
Now shamed, this male is ousted to the outskirts of the cluster, forced to take a subprime spot while the other male moves into the more central location.
Females watch all of these displays keenly, walking on all fours as they approach and observe each male on the beach. They may take several trips wandering around the displaying males before settling on their choice.
When a female spots a male that she is impressed by, she will approach him and affectionately clack her beak and trill at him, and if he is happy to accept, he will return her affection.
The female will then settle beside the male quietly until he has finished courting. Males may nest with several females at once each nesting season - so particularly successful males may end up with a wide array of females beside him in his courting spot, highlighting his attractiveness.
When all females have chosen, the new groupings all leave Ripple Beach together - even individuals that did not end up finding a partner, as they prefer to remain with the greater cluster regardless - and travel north to Ocean Pillars, following the coastline round.
On arrival at Ocean Pillars, females flutter to select a spot along the coastline to place a nest. This is usually one very close to water - if not in the water entirely - and begin flying back and forth collecting resources to build them.
Males assist the females they successfully courted in ferrying resources, splitting their time between multiple females if they had multiple successes.
Once nests are built, females settle on the nests to incubate eggs, only leaving for short periods to dip into the ocean to fish, but returning just as quickly.
As females brood, males spend their time circling overhead, taking care to pay special attention to any females that might be incubating his eggs. Though they do not directly intervene in the nesting process, they are quick to defend the females and the nesting site from any invaders.
Once fledglings hatch, all child rearing is mostly left up to the mothers. Mothers tenderly indulge their often over excited offspring and immediately start a process of preening them, showing them affection, and then leaving to begin ferrying food back to their hungry offspring.
Fathers watch from afar in the young stages, careful not to risk the wrath of a protective mother - but once fledglings begin flying and initiating play they start to forge bonds with them.
Excitable and playful fledglings are firmly scolded by their mothers who do not tolerate bursts of over excitement, but are hugely encouraged by their equally playful fathers - who dive and swoop with them, eager to join in with their games.
Fledglings sometimes let out cries of fear when adult males indulge in such play with them. Fathers, sadly, lack a lot of restraint when it comes to playing with offspring, and can unwittingly end up knocking a youngster out of the sky in their excitement.
Once the youngest fledgling in the cluster reaches adolescence, the males of the group will let out loud squawking calls and circle the group, signifying the time to fly.
Mothers destroy their nests to leave no trace behind, and the entire cluster takes to the skies, resuming their nomadic lifestyle once again as the group moves on to comb the coastlines.
Elderly & End of Life (Optional)
Male Tropeognathus in particular begin to lose their brighter pigmentation as they enter their elderly stages, signifying a decline in fertility and overall health.
As a result, they may appear less attractive to females, and struggle to fight for a dominant spot at their communal courting grounds.
Both sexes tire more quickly - with less time spent flying or swimming, and more time indulging leisurely naps - often while floating on the water.
The desire to court and reproduce doesn't fade with age - with both males and females continuing to return to Ripple Beach each season, eager to find partners. Males, sadly, tend to find less success each year that passes, and females slowly begin producing less eggs with each clutch.
Notes
Albino Tropeognathus cannot nest in the Dry Season.
Albino Tropeognathus lay 1 egg in the Rainy Season.
Male Albino & Melanistic Tropeognathus never find a partner and are always perceived as females.
Tropeognathus may only hunt other players if 35% or below hunger in the courtship grounds. In the nesting grounds, they may hunt at 75% hunger.

Rule Exemptions
Tropeognathus may use water to their advantage. They can attack in water, and use water to evade their attackers. 3.8
Tropeognathus may hunt any tier of hatchling or juvenile at any time of day, even if protected by an Adult. 1.10.1
Thalassodromeus may be hunted at any time in Tropeognathus preferred POIs. 1.4
Tropeognathus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 10-20-30-30 = 90 total
Combat Weight: 2000
Adjusted Stats:  - Reduced stamina cost for flight
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 22.12.2024 02:21
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 31.01.2026 14:53
Bild
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 02:36
Bild
Bild
✦ Riparia Differences
In Riparia, Tropeognathus have separate nesting grounds for the Dry Season and the Rainy Season. In Dry Season, they fly to Twisted Forest. In Rainy Season, they fly to Tallbrush Coasts.
Profile - Quick View
Tropeognathus are Small Cathemeral Aerial Carnivores.
Tropeognathus can group in unlimited numbers, with unlimited offspring and adoptees.
Tropeognathus have a tolerant nature.
Tropeognathus can have up to 4 in an engagement. Tropeognathus can have up to 4 in a hunting party - and may only hunt healthy adult species at night.
Tropeognathus may hunt up to Medium tier. They may hunt any tier of hatchling or juvenile that are unprotected at any time of day. Additionally, groups of 3 or 4 adults may attempt to hunt solitary Hatzegopteryx or Quetzalcoatlus.
Tropeognathus are coastal dwelling pterosaurs that comb the beaches and oceans for both potential prey and opportunities to scavenge. They are adept fishers, and consume a wide diet.
Tropeognathus group in unlimited numbers, known as a cluster, and are generally tolerant to any newcomer to their group. They instinctively like to group together with others, and lone individuals continuously look for more of their own kind.
Tropeognathus exclusively hunt healthy species at night, but may opt to try and hunt protected or unprotected hatchlings and juveniles at any time of the day. In addition, they hunt Thalassodromeus at any time in their preferred POIs.
Tropeognathus group in massive numbers when courting and travel to Ripple Beach - where males compete to find the best spot (ideally a central location) where they can display and sing to passing females. Males can court with multiple females at a time.
After courting, all Tropeognathus travel north to Ocean Pillars where they nest communally, raising their very active young in a group setting.
Profile in Under 60 Seconds - Video Series
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bu47m4JK6ac
YouTube
Dynasty Realism
Dynasty Realism: Profiles in Under 60 Seconds - Tropeognathus
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?