Suchomimus
    "Sucho"
Suchomimus are cunning and opportunistic semi-aquatic carnivores. Though usually tolerant, they are highly calculated, and always on the lookout for an easy advantage. These nomadic predators drift between resource-rich lakes and rivers, assessing every situation for personal gain. While not inherently aggressive, they fiercely guard any perceived benefit - usually a nearby Spinosaurus, which they treat as both a protector and provider. Though social in small groups, Suchomimus are largely indifferent to others of their kind, and prefer intimidation and vocal threats over direct conflict.

⁨
Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Kittyful
Includes ideas from: Red
Photo: Byuul
Profile inspired by cuckoos, bottlenose dolphins, coyotes, gharial.
⁩

Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond



image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.08.2025 15:47
Overview
Bild
Large Catheremal Semi-Aquatic Carnivore
Suchomimus form promiscuous bonds.
Suchomimus are nomadic.
Suchomimus have a tolerant nature.
Suchomimus are not scavengers.
Suchomimus tolerate albino and melanistic individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Suchomimus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
3 Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Suchomimus do not adopt.

This group is known as a snare.

Suchomimus may form dispersal groups consisting of unlimited individuals adolescent and below.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
3 grouped sub/adults may enter an engagement or hunt.
Suchomimus may hunt up to Apex tier.
Adolescent Suchomimus do not assist with their parents’ hunts.
Solo Adolescent Suchomimus may attempt to hunt up to Medium tier.
When in dispersal group: 2 Adolescent Suchomimus may attempt to hunt up to solo Large tier.

Preferred Prey/Diet
Suchomimus readily eat fish when available.
Suchomimus, in addition to fishing, are adept hunters - they stalk and kill other semi-aquatics in their vicinity, and happily take to land to hunt down terrestrial dinosaurs.
Suchomimus may hunt up to Apex tier, but do not hunt Spinosaurus.
Suchomimus do not actively cannibalize each other, but will eat from a body of their species.
Suchomimus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 5 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 4 hours.
Suchomimus nest anywhere along the banks of water in their preferred POIs.
Suchomimus may form same-sex pairs, but do not nest or adopt.

Physical Dimorphism
Suchomimus have no color dimorphism, and both sexes can be either colorful, dull, or somewhere inbetween. However it is thought that more dominant individuals tend to have brighter colors.
This profile does have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Females do not have a pronounced crest. 
Suitable subspecies include: Anguilla
♂️ Males have a more pronounced crest.
Suitable subspecies include: Lapparenti, Tenerensis
Physical dimorphism for Suchomimus is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.08.2025 15:54
Dimorphism Images
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Baby Suchomimus, known as snappers, hatch out of their eggs ready to take on the world with gusto!
From the moment they tear free from their shells, snappers are noisy and mobile, clambering onto their feet to begin their first, initial dash towards water. With nests cleverly positioned at the water's edge, fresh hatchlings have little to no distance to cover in order to slip beneath the surface.
Snappers are incredibly self-sufficient from the second they hatch, and are fully capable of survival with or without a caregiver. Some Suchomimus navigate the world entirely alone, doing so with an almost alarming competence.
However - many Suchomimus are lucky enough to have attentive parents. Those that do keenly observe their adult caregivers, absorbing all learning and survival experiences hungrily. They trail after their parents, screeching and pleading for food - despite being more than capable of catching fish themselves.
Snappers loosely stay together with their siblings and may share fish and kills with each other. More often than not, the bond remains a fairly shallow one that decreases as they age. Sometimes, certain siblings may grow closer and choose to stick together even as they enter adulthood.
Snappers are highly opportunistic, and think nothing of helping themselves to food from other species. Especially bold young may even attempt to snatch fish or meat scraps directly out of their parent's mouths.
As they age, Suchomimus rapidly learn that adults show concern when they let out fear calls. Some individuals take this further than others - and may even end up drawing out the opposite effect from their caregivers, who might opt to tune out snappers that complain in excessive doses.
Suchomimus young adore mud. When not swimming, fishing or otherwise causing chaos, they can often be found wallowing, sliding and playing in muddy banks - lathering their scales in a thick coating of it.
In unique circumstances, sometimes Suchomimus parents position their nests as close by to nesting Spinosaurus as possible. When snappers are born into nests in close proximity to Spinosaurus, they follow their strong smell and rush over to the Spinosaurus nest, hoping that the placid Spinosaurus will take them in and offer them an easier life.
Due to this, all snappers naturally gravitate towards Spinosaurus. They do not imprint on them specifically, but they do instinctively recognise the benefit that comes from being near Spinosaurus and are more than happy to play their part in deceiving the Spinosaurus into caring for them.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
As all snappers are relatively self-sufficient straight away, orphaned Suchomimus suffer no ill consequences in comparison to some other species with a greater reliance on parental care.
However, individuals that reach adulthood without encountering others of their species may suffer socially at first. The lack of socialization leaves a relatively small  - but still significant - impact on them - resulting in adults that struggle to relate to others, and may be more vocal and dramatic at first.
Luckily, they grow out of this behavior quite quickly, and readily adapt to social groups.
They do not naturally seek out other adults as replacement caregivers, but still gravitate towards Spinosaurus.
Bild
Suchomimus spend a considerable amount of time both in the water and patrolling the water's edge. They thrive in an aquatic environment and prefer lakes, rivers and swamps to nest in.
Suchomimus are nomadic, and do not claim territory. They often swarm a particular area that is abundant with food and move on to another area once they have depleted the resources in it.
This behavior can be considered somewhat sedentary - with Suchomimus only moving on when they feel the need to do so.
Occasionally, if an area has a wealth of food available and plenty of courting and convenience opportunities (such as Spinosaurus nearby), they will spend a longer time there before moving on.
Suchomimus enjoy the sun's rays and spend some time basking at the water's edge whenever the opportunity presents itself.
Suchomimus is an incredibly opportunistic species. If a situation presents itself that will reward them without much effort, Suchomimus always prefer to take that route. They are notorious for attempting to bully other carnivores off their kills rather than spend energy hunting their own.
Suchomimus are cathemeral, but take short, frequent naps throughout day and night. They often swim to an island or somewhere unreachable by most terrestrial dinosaurs to do this.
As a highly calculating species, Suchomimus assess risks carefully before taking action. While they may be bold and pushy if a situation warrants it and benefits them, they avoid unnecessary conflict and rely on intimidation rather than brute force.
They test boundaries repeatedly, retreating just out of reach if challenged.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Suchomimus sleep often, especially when Spinosaurus allies are around to protect them. These frequent naps occur in shallow water and on banks and beaches near water sources.
While preparing for rest, Suchomimus may be observed chewing on shells to get to the meat inside, as well as to sharpen their teeth and as a form of enrichment.
Suchomimus may also be observed grabbing lakeweed or kelp out of the water to put in piles in preferred sleeping places to make them more comfortable.
Suchomimus at times bicker over fish during their resting periods, especially over large fish. These bickering matches are brought to an end when another big fish is provided by a Spinosaurus, or when the fish has been eaten.
 
Bild
✦ Snare
Suchomimus stick to a group of 3 sub-adults/adults, which can be comprised of any sex combination, known as a snare. Some siblings may choose to band together throughout adulthood, splitting away only if there isn't room for an unrelated third that they may court with. Otherwise, completely unrelated individuals can form snares, as well as a mated pair and an adult offspring.
✦ General Socialization
Suchomimus are not particularly aggressive towards other Suchomimus, and do not cannibalize or adopt others of their species. They are largely unbothered by the presence of others, but will defend if unknown Suchomimus attempt to get too close to their mate or kill.
One exception is when there are Spinosaurus in the area. Suchomimus will aggressively defend their right to be around Spinosaurus from other Suchomimus not in their snare, viewing others as a potential threat to their chances of getting fed.
Suchomimus show affection to one another once they have established bonds. They make low growling noises, raising their heads and snapping their snouts, and shaking against each other.
Suchomimus enjoy swimming - or just floating - under the water together. They will also choose to sleep beside the others in their group when they take naps.
Bild
Suchomimus are a vocally aggressive species first and foremost, utilizing intimidating calls, screeches and roars in order to threaten both other species and others of their kind.
Between individuals, disagreements and squabbles are common, but rarely do they escalate any further than a quick scuffle or snap at one another.
Most aggression towards other Suchomimus arises when Spinosaurus is present in the area. As a snare becomes extremely possessive over their Spinosaurus, they do not tolerate any other Suchomimus in the vicinity to get close to them - viewing them as a threat to their "resource".
As such, they begin a series of aggressive calls towards any other Suchomimus that gets too close to their claimed Spinosaurus.
Should the warnings not be heeded, Suchomimus will launch a vicious attack - not stopping until either their opponent flees, or they reach deathscars during the battle.
Suchomimus utilize water to their advantage and will use it to flee from terrestrial carnivores if a lost battle seems likely.
Suchomimus will defend others in their snare from all threats and challenges.
Bild
✦ Spinosaurus
Suchomimus have a unique relationship with Spinosaurus.
Suchomimus are never aggressive to Spinosaurus under any circumstances. If Spinosaurus hunts them, they will choose to flee rather than fight back.
Spinosaurus - unlike their more devious cousins Suchomimus - are a slow yet strongly parental carnivore that can sometimes recognize Suchomimus as smaller, deformed Spinosaurus in need of care. Due to their strong parental instincts and desire to nurture, this even extends to them wanting to nurture and protect Suchomimus.
Due to this, Suchomimus prefer to place their nests as close as possible to Spinosaurus nests, hoping to offload their offspring and secure them a higher chance of survival.
Some Spinosaurus will even adopt Suchomimus when they do not have young of their own. Suchomimus recognize these behaviours and instinctively choose to be near Spinosaurus, keen to be adopted and "cared for" by their larger cousins.
The smaller the Suchomimus, the higher chance there is the Spinosaurus may wish to adopt them, which provides an easy life of being fed, nurtured and protected from other carnivores. This is always the Suchomimus' preference if it is possible.
✦ Adopted by Spinosaurus
Suchomimus that manage to ensnare a Spinosaurus into providing for them become highly territorial of their "claimed" Spinosaurus. They do not tolerate any other Suchomimus in the area - besides those in their snare - and aggressively chase them off to defend their right to remain.
This also extends to Concavenator, which Suchomimus perceive to be a threat to their position with the Spinosaurus.
When adopted by Spinosaurus, Suchomimus do not defend the Spinosaurus, but instead expect the Spinosaurus to defend them when attacked or hunted by others, which the Spinosaurus will gladly do.
Spinosaurus provide a comfortable life for Suchomimus, including provision of food and protection, but this comes with some costs. Spinosaurus always intervenes in any engagements between Suchomimus and other species - which often leads to repeated failed hunts for a Suchomimus snare.
As such, Suchomimus slip away from their adopted Spinosaurus when seeking to hunt, often taking to wandering far in land so that they can hunt undetected.
When hunts are successful, Suchomimus are quick to try and devour a corpse before their adopted Spinosaurus finds out and comes to share in the kill. However, if their "parent" finds them, they begrudgingly make room for the Spinosaurus to feed alongside them.
Though Suchomimus never hunt Spinosaurus - when adopted by one, they will try to drive out orphaned Spinosaurus in the vicinity, viewing them as a threat to their position.
Sub/Adult Suchomimus in full snares will attempt to drive off orphaned Suchomimus before they are able to reach the Spinosaurus.
✦ Concavenator
Concavenator, at all times, are viewed with disdain by Suchomimus.
Suchomimus perceive these smaller species to be a threat to any potential adoption between Spinosaurus and Suchomimus, and Suchomimus prefer to chase these species out whenever they spot them.
Suchomimus may also hunt Concavenator from time to time.
✦ Deinosuchus & Sarcosuchus
Suchomimus may hunt any of the crocodilian species (Deinosuchus & Sarcosuchus) to preserve fish stocks for themselves. However, they only do so when they are confident of a successful hunt, and opt to avoid them at other times.
✦ Scavengers
Suchomimus may tolerate scavengers, but only if they are full.
 
Bild
Suchomimus are devious and opportunistic predators who always choose the path of least resistance: whichever outcome is the easiest, and most likely to result in success.
Suchomimus prefer hunting in a team of three if they have a full snare. As fairly devious individuals, they may use one member of their snare to pretend to bask on the water's edge, enticing other carnivores to come and attack whilst they wait below the surface to lunge.
Suchomimus readily target the crocodilian species: Deinosuchus (only if they have 3 sub-adult/adults in their snare) and Sarcosuchus.
Suchomimus may combine ambush hunting (especially if by the water's edge, and able to surprise an attack on a thirsty dinosaur) with endurance hunting. They travel in land after their prey without limit, and will pursue for as long as they feel is necessary in order to get a successful kill.
Suchomimus are adept at hunting both on land and in water - and have no preference for when or where a hunt starts. Utilizing their long, sharp claws, they slash and tear at their struggling prey.
Some Suchomimus take to setting up elaborate traps near water for their prey. Small fish are sometimes placed just by the shore in an attempt to lure in other species.
Suchomimus never hunt Spinosaurus.
Bild
✦ Courtship
Courtship for Suchomimus begins with males staking claim to a temporary display site along a water source. This is usually a shallow area of a riverbank, a rocky pool, or part of a lake edge.
From these tiny territories, males loudly broadcast their presence, unleashing a chorus of roars, screeches and hisses. They lash their tails into the water, creating loud splashes, and snap their jaws open and shut in the area with loud clacks.
The goal for these males is to appear the boldest and most confident - making loud vocalizations like this is sure to draw attention from nearby females, but the splashing in water can also lure in aquatic predators.
Males that secure the most appealing location have a higher chance of impressing a potential mate. As such, these prime spots are often hotly contested for by other males.
Challenges begin with a slow and aggressive approach, with the male issuing out deep, threatening growls. This ritualized warning gives the current occupant a chance to retreat, though most stand their ground.
When neither is willing to back down, a violent battle ensues -  they bite into each other's flesh, slash them with their claws, and try to shove the other into submission.
These battles continue until one male backs down and submits, granting victory and the right to stay in his place.
Females enjoy watching these fights, poking her head out of the water to watch the males. Once a winner has been determined, she will approach him slowly, shaking the water off of herself. The two will briefly circle one another before issuing affectionate calls and nuzzling one another -- indicating sweet, screechy acceptance.
✦ Nesting
The female will then move off to observe other fights, or to construct her nest. Females may nest with up to 2 males in any season. Males will continue courtship for as long as females are expressing interest. 
Females must list both fathers, if courting two different males, in their nesting posts. Offspring may select which male is their father.
Females will construct their nests on different, quieter shores, where they can brood over their eggs and ensure they are not interrupted by other predators attempting to steal them. Another favoured nesting location is nearby Spinosaurus nests-- as very little risks coming close to a Spinosaurus.
✦ Parenthood
Once eggs begin to move, the female will move into the water where she waits for her offspring, issuing affectionate screeches to call for the little snappers as they tumble out of their eggs.
Males, at this point, often come to greet his offspring. If having nested with multiple females, he must spread his attention between all and his offspring. This more often than not results in a female being the primary caretaker of snappers, but if able, he will assist as well.
Suchomimus parents stay very close to their offspring, teaching them how to fish and catering to them when they refuse to. Every time a snapper fear calls, their parents quickly rush over to comfort and soothe them-- until they get sick of it, and begin to ignore the fear calls entirely.
Suchomimus parents will always recognize their offspring by scent, and will often spend periods of time basking on shores with one another and grooming them. This often doesn't go well liked by the fiesty snappers-- who would much rather be set out into the world and exploring.
If snappers begin to drift towards Spinosaurus, preferring them more than their Suchomimus parents-- Suchomimus will sadly watch them go from afar, calling out for them, but not stopping them. They mourn the loss briefly before moving on, turning their backs and finding different waters.
✦ Offspring Maturity
As their offspring reach sub adult, they drift away from them, but will continue to tolerate them, unless there is a claimed Spinosaurus present. In that case, they will chase the offspring off-- but with very little aggression, if they can help it.
Bild
As Suchomimus age, they begin to grow less and less active, preferring to sleep and rest for extended periods on the shore. They become less overconfident and bold and grow quieter, preferring to find peaceful and warm resting places rather than to contest others for stomping grounds.
More often than not, older Suchomimus rely on the support of their social bonds in order to feed and take care of themselves. Lonely or solitary Suchomimus will drift towards Spinosaurus for this protection as they did in their youth, and while tolerated in most cases, it depends on the Spinosaurus whether or not it will actually lend its care and support.
Older Suchomimus may fade in color as a result of their age; often, Suchomimus may go deaf or blind from age, primarily relying on the support of others around them.
When a bonded or young Suchomimus passes, Suchomimus will express a great deal of grief, nudging, nuzzling, and vocalizing towards the body to get it to stand. They prefer to not feed from the bodies of a loved one, and will often choose not to, even when hungry.
Bild
None
Bild
RULE EXEMPTIONS
Suchomimus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 21:42
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 03:28
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Suchomimus are Large Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Carnivores.
Suchomimus group in numbers up to 3 sub/adults - these can be related or unrelated groupings. Suchomimus do not adopt.
Suchomimus are tolerant.
Suchomimus can have up to 3 in an engagement, and up to 3 in a hunting party.
Suchomimus may hunt up to Apex tier. They can hunt in land or from water.
Suchomimus are devious carnivores and uniquely try to get looked after by Spinosaurus. This large semi-aquatic dinosaur often mistakes Suchomimus for deformed Spinosaurus young, and can end up taking care of Suchomimus (including providing food) indefinitely - a position every Suchomimus hopes for.
If Spinosaurus are in the area, Suchomimus try to nest as close as possible to them in the hopes they will mistake their young for their own, drastically improving survival chances for their offspring.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-40-50-70 = 180 total
Combat Weight: 5000
Adjusted Stats: none
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Growing up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?