Sarcosuchus
Sarcosuchus was an enormous prehistoric crocodile-like reptile that lived about 110 million years ago during the Early Cretaceous period. It could grow up to 40 feet in length and weighed around 8 tons, making it one of the largest crocodilians to have ever lived. Sarcosuchus primarily inhabited river systems in what is now Africa and likely preyed on creatures and large fish.

⁨
Author: Zesty_Filip
Photo: Byuul
Profile inspired by Bornean Crocodiles and Jacanas.
⁩

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond



image.png 

Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 20.04.2025 01:35
Overview
Details
Large Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Carnivore
Sarcosuchus form polyandrous bonds.
Sarcosuchus are nomadic.
Sarcosuchus have a tolerant nature in the Rainy Season, and are aggressive in the Dry Season. Females are cannibalistic towards unrelated young of adolescent and below.
Sarcosuchus may not scavenge from claimed corpses and must contest for a body. Critters and abandoned corpses may be freely eaten.
Sarcosuchus tolerate albino and melanistic individuals.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
3 Sub/Adults comprising of: 2 males and 1 female, 3 females, or 3 males.
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees
Floats that have a female present do not adopt.
This group is known as a float.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 3 sub/adult Sarcosuchus may enter an engagement or hunt.
Sarcosuchus flee from Apex carnivores when on land.
Sarcosuchus do not flee Apex carnivores when in water.
Sarcosuchus may hunt up to solitary Large tier when on land.
Sarcosuchus may hunt up to Apex tier when in water, or if the prey is within 2 Sarcosuchus body lengths of the water.
Sarcosuchus may third party an engagement if either side come within 2 body lengths of the water the Sarcosuchus is already in.
Sarcosuchus tolerate scavengers.
Adolescent Sarcosuchus do not assist with their parents’ hunts.
Solo Adolescent Sarcosuchus may attempt to hunt up to Medium tier.
Adolescents and younger do not participate in hunts unless they are in a dispersal group with no adults present.
In a group with no adults present: Up to 2 Adolescent Sarcosuchus may hunt up to Medium tier.
Adolescent Sarcosuchus may only begin hunts in water, or if the prey is within 2 Sarcosuchus body lengths of the water. They cannot hunt when on land at any time.
Adolescent Sarcosuchus cannot third party an ongoing engagement.

Preferred Prey/Diet
During the day, Sarcosuchus hunt only from the water. Hunting engagements must be initiated either within the water on swimming prey, or on prey that is within 2 Sarcosuchus body lengths of the water. 
When hunting from the water, Sarcosuchus may hunt up to Apex tier.
If they land a hit and their prey runs in-land, they may pursue indefinitely after them. If not, they must forfeit the hunt.
At night, Sarcosuchus may also travel onto land to hunt prey. 
When hunting on land, Sarcosuchus may only hunt up to solitary Large tier.
Sarcosuchus does not hunt healthy adult Deinocheirus, but may attempt to hunt unprotected Deinocheirus offspring, up to adolescent.
Should an adult return to protect the offspring, Sarcosuchus will forfeit the hunt.
Unhealthy Deinocheirus are death-scarred or albino.
Sarcosuchus does not hunt adult Spinosaurus.
Sarcosuchus prefers smaller prey that they can seize in their jaws, clamping down and dragging them deep into the river depths to drown.
Sarcosuchus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
Sarcosuchus nest anywhere in their preferred POIs along the banks of water sources. Their nests are constructed out of roots, mud and branches.
 
Physical Dimorphism
♀️ Females have scales that are all of one color, with minor differences. They have a more uniform appearance, sometimes with speckled patterns or small variations in color.
♂️ Males have variable patterns, often with bold stripes. Their undersides and necks always feature bright flashes of color.
Color dimorphism for Sarcosuchus is mandatory. Mutated males are not required to abide by dimorphism.

Growing Up
Offspring Behavior
Hatchling Sarcosuchus emerge from their eggs with hazy, blurred vision and are essentially blind. The vulnerable youngsters are entirely dependent on their float for protection from predators.
They remain hidden in the tangled roots of their nest as much as possible. Only leaving to follow their parents into the shallow water nearby, guided by the low rumbles and grunts of their caregivers.
Survival during the hatchling stage is precarious. Hatchlings are timid and strive to remain unnoticed, slipping beneath debris or clustering together when startled or alerted to danger. Their best chance lies in stillness and silence.
Their world is based around sound and touch, and they navigate by the vibrations in the water, and gentle nudges from the members of their float. Hatchlings remain close together, often resting their head on their sibling’s back for reassurance.
It is not until they reach Juvenile that their eyesight develops and their vision clears, opening up the potential for exploration of the world around them.  With new confidence, they venture out curiously through vegetation and submerged logs, hoping to blend against the foliage to reduce detection from predators.
When in water, these curious juveniles prefer to sink right to the bottom of the riverbed to better remain hidden.
Juvenile Sarcosuchus continue to be dependent on their parents, and return to the nest with loud chirps to beg for food, which is usually brought to them promptly.
While still wary, they begin to assert themselves among their siblings, forming loose bonds with those closest in size (and temperament), while showing hints of aggression towards smaller and weaker nestmates.
If a youngster drifts too far during their quest for exploration, an adult may seize them in their jaws and carry them back to the safety of the nest.
By adolescence, their confidence grows even further, and with it comes the more independence. They begin hunting small prey such as fish or critters in earnest, and hone their hunting skills for future opportunities on more dangerous prey.
At this stage, the adolescent Sarcosuchus develop more of a pecking order among sibling groups. Larger and more dominant siblings may bully their more passive siblings away from food, or steal their prey. However - against adults, even adolescent Sarcosuchus remain submissive, careful not to push their luck too far.
When the adults begin leaving the water at night to explore on land, adolescent Sarcosuchus keenly follow them, but are careful to remain far enough behind that they do not disturb any potential hunts. Though they are not permitted to join the adults in hunting, they watch carefully from hidden bushes. 
It is common for adolescents to mimic the adults in their float - watching hunting behavior curiously, and improving their stalking and ambushing abilities. They lay motionless in wait, hidden in foliage, before charging towards unsuspecting frogs, reptiles and small mammal species.
Interactions with adults are kept cautious and respectful. They call out with soft, appeasing chirps and move slowly.
 
Once they reach sub-adult, offspring are chased out of the float by the adults in the group - most typically the female, who progressively shows less tolerance to her offspring as they grow.
Siblings disperse in same sex groups of up to 3, or leave alone.
Though considered adults when they reach sub-adult, Sarcosuchus do not fully mature until Adult, and cannot court or nest until then.

Orphaned Behavior
Orphaned Sarcosuchus face a tough battle for survival from the moment they hatch.
Without the guardianship of their float, they lack both protection and food provision. They instinctively chirp to call their parents, crying out fearfully from hunger, or from being alone in the world. Without any response, the young Sarcosuchus sometimes call more loudly and boldly, attracting predators and bringing about their demise.
Those that survive do so by hiding deep in root tangles or drifting with debris, attempting to blend in with their surroundings and calling more softly and infrequently.
As their eyesight improves by Juvenile - and driven by hunger and the threat of starvation - orphans begin fishing as soon as they are able.
They sink to the riverbed, moving only when necessary, and spend much more time in water than they do on land.
Orphaned Sarcosuchus may band together in a group with others if they have siblings or encounter other youngsters of Adolescent age or below. Though they do not defend each other, they feel safer in numbers, and prefer to rest close to each other for comfort.
Those lucky enough to find a lone adult male - or all male group - may find solace if they are welcomed into the float. Adult males, especially those without recent offspring, may tolerate or even adopt an orphan, offering them protection as well as food. 
Orphans that successfully integrate into an all-male float remain submissive to their new caregivers, and quickly learn to respond to his vocalizations with affection, and avoid competition with him for food.
However - they must remain cautious when adults of their kind approach them. Females never adopt them and may see them as an easy meal. If an orphan ventures too close to a float containing females, it risks being attacked, driven away, or even eaten.
 
General Behavior
Sarcosuchus spend equal parts of their life in water and land. They adore the heat, and spend a lot of time basking on river banks while nestled in vegetation. They travel back to water often to replenish their thirst, and take small breaks from the heat.
Sarcosuchus only enter small pools of water - such as the ponds at Wilderness Peak or Littleclaw Pond - for brief rest stops on their travels, and do not stay there for longer than 15 minutes at a time.
Sarcosuchus may not re-enter these pools for an entire day/night cycle after spending 15 minutes within the pond.
Sarcosuchus thoroughly enjoy pools of mud - as a cooling agent, camouflage, and thick coating against their scales.  They seek out thick, shaded mud pools to coat their skin, preventing excessive moisture loss while also allowing them to blend in with their environment.
This behavior is most frequent during the Dry Season, when direct sunlight is particularly harsh and unforgiving.
Even while basking on land, Sarcosuchus remain hyper aware of movement. If they detect prey along the shoreline, they slip forward into the water, getting into the ready position to ambush.
During the Dry Season, Sarcosuchus propel themselves rapidly through the cooler water at the deep to regulate their body temperature. Basking breaks are more frequently broken up with regular dips back into their water source.
During the Rainy Season, their tolerance for others outside of their group increases. The abundance of water reduces competition, and Sarcosuchus can be seen resting close to one another along the shoreline, or even floating together in still waters. When clustered in this manner, they resemble logs and debris - an effective tactic for ambushing prey.
All Sarcosuchus are nomadic, but may opt to stay in one particular area if it is especially abundant in prey and resources.
Solitary Sarcosuchus, however, travel more frequently - keen to find companionship.
✦ Downtime Behavior
During the daytime, they conserve their energy by basking or floating, motionless at the water's surface. They absorb warmth from the sun, keeping their metabolism steady while minimizing unnecessary movement. Unless disturbed - or tending to offspring - they rarely vocalize during daylight hours.
 
Social Interaction
All Seasons
Members of a float - regardless of gender composition - are highly protective of one another, knowing that the presence of a Deinosuchus - or worse, a Spinosaurus - could spell the end of their dynasty.
Sarcosuchus do not have a strict dominance structure, but instinctively learn each others' behaviors and move as one unit. When traveling, they follow whichever individual initiates movement, shifting their course as needed to stay together.
However - when migrating through water, floats adopt a more structured formation. They swim in a triangular pattern with one leading from the front, and two just behind them, positioned left and right of the leader.
New members to a float are met with cautious observation. They begin circling the newcomer, swimming slowly and deliberately, while scanning for signs of illness, infection or parasites.
Two solitary Sarcosuchus will enact this behavior with each other, with both individuals moving around the other in a circular motion.
When a solitary individual is met by a pair, the newcomer remains motionless as the already grouped Sarcosuchus inspects them.
Grumbles and low rumbles signal hunger within the group. When one member vocalizes, others join in, acknowledging the need to hunt or fish. Afterwards, the float may begin a coordinated search for prey.
Same sex floats tend to fragment over time. All male or all female groups may begin to wander, seeking members of the opposite sex to form a new float. These groups become restless, traveling further in search of potential mates.

Rainy Season
With water sources abundant and fish stocks plentiful, Sarcosuchus may engage in food sharing behaviors with their groupmates. Individuals will occasionally offer fish to their companions, helping to reinforce social bonds within the float.
When basking, they rub against one another and against large boulders, helping to exfoliate their tough scales. This helps maintain skin health, while also serving as a social interaction.
Floats become more tolerant of other floats in their vicinity. The plentiful resources reduce conflict, and Sarcosuchus allow other floats to linger nearby - only acting aggressively if provoked.
Gentle nuzzling and body contact are signs of companionship, and exhibited across all genders. While basking on land, Sarcosuchus press their snouts against each other in quiet displays of familiarity and trust.
Dry Season
As water reserves shrink, tempers flare. Sarcosuchus become irritable, frequently snapping at any float members that come too close to them in this period.
Minor disputes break out over space, with a light snapping of jaws to display their annoyance, but never escalate beyond a bite or two, with the aggressed party quickly backing off.
Mud pools become contested resources. Individuals claim a specific pool of mud, and prevent others from using them - including their fellow groupmates. 
Should another float - or species entirely - approach, they may be met with aggression. Should the intruder persist, the dispute escalates into a physical confrontation.
Regardless of species or grouping, Sarcosuchus always abandon this if they drop below half health, bitterly giving up their prized mud pool.
At this time, other floats are not tolerated in line of sight in the water. If a rival float enters their vicinity, Sarcosuchus will either opt to move on themselves, or push them out of the POI entirely.
This is the only time Sarcosuchus become territorial. Solitary Sarcosuchus always back down from a float with 2 or more members. Sarcosuchus in a float of just 2 members may consider adding a solitary individual to their group, depending on gender and preferences.
Aggressive Interaction
Dry Season Territorial Behavior
Sarcosuchus will not tolerate other floats in their stretch of the water during the Dry Season.
Solitary individuals will ignore other solitary individuals, but become aggressive if the other encroaches on their space.
Full floats always push out other Sarcosuchus, unless in a same sex group and encountering an individual or more of the opposite sex. 
If uninterested in courting and nesting, they continue to push the float out.
Other floats and individuals are given warning calls first - 3 x :threaten_call: - before a vicious attack is launched, ending only when the others leave the POI, or beat them in battle.
Should the float not wish to push the other group out, they must leave themselves.

Mud Pools
Mud Pools are the "mud" resources scattered across the map.
Mud pools are defended from other Sarcosuchus - including groupmates - and even other species in the Dry Season.
Sarcosuchus valiantly defend their prime mud pool, and only begrudgingly forfeit if they reach less than half health.
Prime or abundant spots in the Dry Season are highly desirable for Sarcosuchus, and it is common for spats to break out among members of a float for the best pool.

When all male floats encounter female(s)
When an all male float detects the presence of a nearby female, they scramble into the water in an attempt to find the largest fish to present to her.
The female will inspect her offerings, choosing to form a new float with up to two males that impressed her the most. The decision is entirely hers, and males respect the decision the female makes.

When all female floats encounter male(s)
The sight of a male - or all-male float - causes chaos within an all female float.
As males scrambled to locate a fish to present to them, a bloodthirsty brawl breaks out between females. 
Only 1 female may form a float with up to 2 males, and even previously affectionate female companions may turn on each other to secure their choice of mates.
Battles are quick but brutal - ending only when one member forfeits or reaches deathscars.
The winner approaches the males that impress her the most and forms a new float with them.
Should there be a third male left behind, the other female(s) may opt to group with him.
Another battle must break out if two females remain to determine which female gets the right to form a new float.

Orphans
Male Sarcosuchus always attempt to adopt orphaned Sarcosuchus of adolescent or below.
Females, however, see them as potential prey, and will hunt them if hungry enough.
 
Cross-Species Interaction
Sarcosuchus does not hunt healthy adult Deinocheirus, but may attempt to hunt unprotected Deinocheirus offspring, up to adolescent.
Should an adult return to protect the offspring, Sarcosuchus will forfeit the hunt.
Unhealthy Deinocheirus are death-scarred or albino.
Sarcosuchus tolerate scavengers.
Sarcosuchus in a float of 2+ members do not tolerate solitary Deinosuchus in their immediate POI. These large crocodilians prove a threat to Sarcosuchus - and so, they will either seek to drive them out, kill them, or leave for different waters themselves.
Solitary Sarcosuchus that encounter 1+ Deinosuchus, or floats that encounter 2 Deinosuchus, always opt to leave the POI for a safer water source.
They will attempt to hurry their offspring away if they have a nest nearby, but will defend themselves if attacked.
Adult Spinosaurus are always kept at a distance where possible. Experienced individuals may learn over time that Spinosaurus are highly aggressive and territorial, and opt to flee them if they get too close.
Sarcosuchus do not hunt adult Spinosaurus and do not accept territory challenges, and opt to flee engagements from them. They may defend themselves, but must try to escape as soon as an opportunity presents itself.
Scavenger species are tolerated if they provide grooming abilities and remain slow moving. Sudden bursts of speed may prompt Sarcosuchus to lunge - sometimes without meaning to - and clamp the unwitting species in their jaws.
Often, they release them afterwards, before settling back down to receive more grooming attention, should the small creature not be too alarmed.
Sarcosuchus open their jaws wide for these species to clean at pieces of flesh and gristle caught between their teeth. Their small, pointed snouts prove effortless in stripping any remnants left behind here, and appear to be greatly enjoyed by Sarcosuchus.
 
Hunting Strategy
Sarcosuchus are ambush hunters and always attempt to conceal their presence until they are able to land a bite.
Sarcosuchus adopt different hunting strategies based on the time of day.
Sarcosuchus primarily exist on a diet of meat and fish, and when not swimming or basking, the rest of their time is spent stalking for prey - usually just under the surface of the water.
Prey small enough to be carried will be clamped and dragged straight into the water where the Sarcosuchus will attempt to drown them and tear their flesh with their powerful jaws.
Otherwise, Sarcosuchus will bite and rip at flesh from their struggling prey.
Sarcosuchus does not hunt healthy adult Deinocheirus, but may attempt to hunt unprotected Deinocheirus offspring, up to adolescent.
Should an adult return to protect the offspring, Sarcosuchus will forfeit the hunt.
Unhealthy Deinocheirus are death-scarred or albino.
Sarcosuchus does not hunt adult Spinosaurus.
Sarcosuchus females may attempt to hunt unrelated Sarcosuchus of adolescent or below if the young are unprotected.
Sarcosuchus may 3rd party a creature during a hunt if the hunter OR the hunted come within 2 bodylengths of the water the Sarcosuchus is already in. All 3rd partying must be done from water.

Day Hunting Strategy
During the day, Sarcosuchus spend a lot of time in water chasing down fish stocks, or basking on the shoreline.
When hunting at this time, all hunts for Sarcosuchus must be started within 2 body lengths of water. If a hit lands, they may pursue in land to chase the prey down, but do not pursue if they miss their first attack.
When hunting from water, they may hunt up to Apex tier.
Sarcosuchus are quick to react to sudden vibrations in the water, or a glimmer of another species getting close to the shore.
Sarcosuchus may accidentally grasp their own offspring in their jaws if they behave erratically, confusing them for fast moving prey.
Halzkaraptor prove to be a delicious snack for Sarcosuchus stealthy enough to catch them.

Night Hunting Strategy
After a day of basking, Sarcosuchus use the energy they have garnered to venture onto land. They sculk through foliage in an attempt to find sleeping creatures to ambush.
During the night, Sarcosuchus can hunt on land as well as from water. 
When hunting on land, they may hunt up to solitary Large tier.
Floats of Sarcosuchus are not seen stalking through large stretches of open land, preferring instead to stay near foliage, rocks or trees so they remain hidden.
Following a successful hunt on land, Sarcosuchus retreat back to water with their bellies now full.
 
Courtship & Parenthood
Courtship is always begun in the water.
Only fully grown adults are able to court and nest.
Sarcosuchus form polyandrous bonds, with one female nesting with up to 2 males at a time.
The female initiates courtship by calling softly, and moving in swift, darting motions to draw the attention of her male(s).
Once she captures their interest, the female dives to the riverbed, gliding downward in a slow and deliberate motion. She settles at the bottom, waiting for the male(s) to join her.
The male(s) descend after her, positioning themselves in front of her. The trio (or pair) then begin a ritualized vocal exchange, where they bellow loudly in turns, producing deep, resonating vibrations, and filling their surrounding area with a mass of bubbles.
Between calls, the males gently lean forward and brush their snout against the female's, signalling their interest.
If the female is receptive, she begins to swim slowly along the riverbed. The male(s) match her pace, gliding alongside her in a synchronized display. They continue this motion until their supply of oxygen depletes, forcing them to rise to the surface and conclude their courtship ritual.
If the female only wishes to nest with one male and both attempt to garner her attention, she will snap her jaws and turn away from him. Though disappointed by the rejection, males respect the female's choice.
Regardless of whether the female opts to nest with one male or two (resulting in split paternity of the eggs in the clutch), both males equally work together with the female to construct her nest along the shoreline.
The pair (or trio) gather branches, mud and roots, and carefully shape them in the nest to retain heat, and protect the eggs from the elements.
Once the nest is built, the female lays her eggs and broods over them for a while, aided by the male(s), who take it in turns to bring her food.
As offspring hatch, the female departs from the nest and resumes her normal activities - leaving most of the care to the male(s).
Male(s) spend a great deal of time resting near the hatchlings, listening to their needs and responding quickly to the young's chirps by bringing food to them.
Hatchling Sarcosuchus are born almost blind, and are heavily encouraged to stay within the realms of the nest until they grow. At least one adult - usually a male - stays beside the nest at all times, gently retrieving young that scurry too far and returning them to the safety of their clutchmates.
Adults permit hatchlings to venture into the water directly beside the nest, but are careful not to let them wander.
As young grow into juveniles, they are afforded more freedom, but are still kept under the watchful eye of their adult caregivers.
While young may start to develop a slight hierarchy and pecking order among themselves, any sign of dominance towards adults is never tolerated, with offspring receiving swift correction if they become too bold.
Overly energetic young can sometimes be mistaken for prey and can be grasped quickly by an adult.
If not actively stalking or hunting, adults allow adolescent Sarcosuchus to chase and attempt their own hunts on critters - only intervening if they become too loud.
Males show tender affection towards young at regular intervals, while the mother remains more distant. She is more accepting of her offspring in their smaller stages, and grows less tolerant the older they become.
By Sub-Adult, the mother grows fully intolerant of her offspring, and drives them out of the float.
Only if the males lack a female and have space for another male will a son be permitted to stay behind. Otherwise, offspring disperse into small, same-sex groups.
Adoption
Females never adopt unrelated offspring, and instead see them as potential prey. Any unrelated Sarcosuchus of adolescent or below may be freely hunted by adult females.
Males do not take this stance, and instead are quick to adopt unrelated offspring if there is no female present in their float. They approach any lost orphans of adolescent or below and call affectionately to them, drawing them into their group for protection.
Elderly & End of Life (Optional)
Elderly Sarcosuchus slow down significantly, basking for longer periods, and spending more time in shallow, slow-moving waters where they can conserve energy.
Their hunting efficiency declines, and elderly Sarcosuchus no longer leave the water to travel in land and hunt at night. If grouped with other, younger members, they may be assisted by their floatmates bringing them back scraps of meat from a kill made on land.
Their thicker, scarred hides show the marks of a long life, with deep scratches, worn scales and missing teeth showcasing the telltale signs of past battles. Scales fade, losing their depth of color - a symptom most easily noticed in elderly males.
Notes
Females may nest with up to 2 males.
If nesting with 2 males, the female may decide how many eggs are fathered by each male, up to the nesting limit. If they can lay 2 eggs, then each father will sire one egg. Nesting limits cannot be exceeded.
In the day, Sarcosuchus must start a hunt within 2 body lengths of water. If they land a hit and their prey runs in land, they may pursue indefinitely after them. If not, they must forfeit the hunt.
At night, Sarcosuchus may start a hunt from water or fully in land.
Sarcosuchus must be in water to third party an ongoing engagement. They can 3rd party if hunter or hunted reaches up to 2 body lengths from the water.
Sarcosuchus hunts in the water during the day and night. Night hunting grounds are considered unpreferred POIs during the day, and Sarcosuchus must be 35% hunger or below (and log their hunger if in a group) in order to hunt there. Sarcosuchus may hunt from the water at any time of day following POI hunger requirements.
Sarcosuchus may only initiate hunts on land outside of highlighted areas on their POI map if 35% hunger at night.
Sarcosuchus may hunt from small bodies of water, but must leave after 15 minutes. They must move on and are only permitted to return after an entire day/night cycle.

Rule Exemptions
Female sarcosuchus will cannibalize any unrelated orphans who are adolescent and younger. 8.4
Sarcosuchus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-40-50-70 = 180 total
Combat Weight: 4500
Adjusted Stats:
⁨
- Clamp Weight: Up to 3100 Combat Weight.
- Carry capacity increased to 3101 from 3001
- Movement speed increased
- Fast swim cost per second reduced
⁩ 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 21:40
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 01.08.2026 04:38
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Sarcosuchus are Large Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Carnivores.
Sarcosuchus can group up to 3 Sub/Adults with unlimited offspring and  unlimited adoptees. These groups are called a float. Only males adopt - females may cannibalize unrelated Sarcosuchus of adolescent and below.
Sarcosuchus are tolerant.
Sarcosuchus can have up to 3 in an engagement and a hunt.
Sarcosuchus change their hunting tactics depending on the time of day. During the day, all hunts must start no more than 2 body lengths from water, and may be up to Apex tier.
If their prey flees in-land after they have landed a successful hit, they may pursue their prey. If they missed a hit, they must return to the water.
During the night, Sarcosuchus may move in land to hunt. They may hunt up to solitary Large tier.
Sarcosuchus may third party an engagement if either side come within 2 body lengths of the water the Sarcosuchus is already in.
Sarcosuchus are a highly seasonal species, exhibiting different behaviors in the Dry Season and Rainy Season.
In the Dry Season, floats of Sarcosuchus have little tolerance for others of their kind, and drive them out of the nearby area.
Individuals claim prized mud pools, which they defend from all others - including their floatmates.
In the Rainy Season, Sarcosuchus are much more tolerant of each other, and may co-exist nearby other floats - though do not share kills or defend them.
Floatmates show affection to each other, nuzzling and offering one another gifts of fish.
Floats consist of a maximum of 3 Sub/Adult members, which is either a fully same-sex group, or a polyandrous group, with one female and up to two males.
Females are the more aggressive of the two genders, and willingly cannibalize any unrelated Sarcosuchus of adolescent and below.
Males, meanwhile, are more passive, never hunting others of their species - though they will not let a body go to waste - and instead attempting to adopt offspring under adolescent that they find.
This is never attempted if males are grouped with a female, as doing so may risk the orphan being cannibalized by her.
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?