Giganotosaurus
    "Giga"
Giganotosaurus are nomadic apex predators. They are powerful and calculated and known for endurance-based hunting, able to run down prey over long distances. Giganotosaurus thrive in solitude or fragile, temporary bonds that only become permanent through proven nesting success.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Red
Photo: QueenBella
Profile inspired by jaguars, leopards, black panthers, peregrine falcons, and creative liberty.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 24.02.2026 21:48
Overview
Bild
Apex Diurnal Terrestrial Carnivore
Giganotosaurus form temporary pairbonds. These can develop into lifelong pairbonds after 5 clutches together.
Giganatosaurus are nomadic.
Giganotosaurus have an aggressive nature.
Giganotosaurus are not scavengers.
Giganotosaurus cannibalize albino and tolerate melanistic individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Giganotosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 2 Sub/Adults of any relation or sex.
4 Offspring (nest multipliers may exceed this number)
Giganotosaurus do not adopt.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 2 Sub/Adult Giganotosaurus may enter an engagement. Grouped Sub/Adult Giganotosaurus may always defend each other.
Giganotosaurus may hunt up to any tier.
Giganotosaurus do not hunt adult Tyrannosaurus, Tyrannotitan, or other Giganotosaurus, but may challenge them and eat from their bodies. They must challenge the other Apex carnivores out of the POI before initiating a hunt on any other species, or leave themselves. 
Giganotosaurus may hunt Tyrannosaurus, Tyrannotitan or Giganotosaurus who are Albino, deathscarred, or Adolescent and below.
Parents always defend their grouped offspring.
Adolescent Giganotosaurus do not assist with their parents’ hunts.
Solo Adolescent Giganotosaurus may attempt to hunt Solo Large tier.

Preferred Prey
Giganotosaurus target any Apex herbivores first, then Large if available. 
However, if Tyrannotitan, Tyrannosaurus, or Giganotosaurus is within the same POI and within LOS, Giganotosaurus must challenge the apex before hunting anything else in the POI. If they are unwilling, they must leave the POI.
Solitary Giganotosaurus do not hunt Apatosaurus or Argentinosaurus unless a kill seems likely (the individual is deathscarred, Adolescent or below, or Albino).
Giganotosaurus openly hunt and cannibalize Albino members of their species.
Giganotosaurus cannibalize unattended ungrouped offspring of Adolescent and below.
Giganotosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 4 hour.
Giganotosaurus  nest in dense foliage within their preferred POIs.
Giganotosaurus may form same-sex pairs, but do not nest or adopt.

Physical Dimorphism
Giganotosaurus males are larger than females. Giganotosaurus males flush their crests when interested in courtship.
This profile may have high t and low t individuals. High t females may be larger in size, and have flashes of color on their crest. Low t males may be unable to flush their crest, and may be smaller in stature.
♀️ Female Giganotosaurus are smaller in size than their male counterparts, and a bit more nimble.
Suitable subspecies include: Variation 3, Variation 4, Slim
♂️ Male Giganotosaurus are larger than females, best for taking down large prey. 
Suitable subspecies include: Stocky, Standard, Variation 5
Physical dimorphism for Giganotosaurus is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Giganotosaurus hatchlings, known as kits, emerge quietly from their shells, chirping softly as they blink against the light. Their parents often watch in silence, offering occasional low calls to reassure their young of their presence.
Kits squeak and quickly stumble towards their parents if nearby, nuzzling up to their warmth in order to regain the strength taken by hatching. If their parents are absent, they attempt to do this with their siblings.
Kits rest and stay very close to each other until halfway through hatchling, where they tentatively begin to take their first steps.
If the mother has to leave the nesting area for any reason, kits will quickly scuttle back to their nest to rest silently until her return, only responding when they hear her calling for them.
At juvenile, kits have established strong bonds with the other kits in their litter. They are fully capable of walking, running, and keeping up with their parents on the move to food or water, and have developed enough muscle tone to land rather substantial bites on their siblings regardless of their size.
Their mother takes them from the nest to find their father, who will greet them by carefully sniffing each one. Nervous kits flee back to their mothers for protection from the unfamiliar sight and individual, while fiercer ones posture towards their father, defiantly standing their ground.
Once the anxieties of the introduction have settled, kits have no issue on attempting to initiate play with their father, even if he does not respond or behaves grumpily towards them. A favored pastime of many kits is pouncing on their father's tail.
At this point the family begins to migrate, following the male's lead with the female keeping track of the rowdy kits. Fathers have no issue leaving their kits behind, while mothers hesitate when her kits are out of sight. Kits quickly learn to stay close to their mother - especially if they ever come across any threats.
Kits are expected to keep up. If they are unable to, or they lag behind, the parents will leave them behind, and keep moving along with the kits who are the strongest.
Kits eagerly swarm to feed from any kills made, but are nipped at by their fathers, which efficiently drives them off. Their mothers will take chunks of the kill and drop them in front of them, which the kits excitedly gnaw on and feed from.
Continued travel and their parent’s teachings has kits hunting their own critters as they hit adolescence. They begin to grow increasingly independent from that moment forward, even drifting away from their parents and bonded siblings for solace and solitude.
By the time they are Sub-Adult, they have a full set of skills ready enough for them to split from their parents and siblings, and head out on their own independently.
They do so on their own without issue, shaking as a way to say goodbye to their parents, who by this time are indifferent to their presence.
Some siblings opt to stay with another sibling or parent temporarily if they are solitary out of convenience, but split away from the group if any courtship opportunities arise.

✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
If one or both parents of a kit dies, they risk being completely neglected. While they may stay banded together as a temporary alliance until they reach Sub-Adult, survival for them is fraught with stress as they have no parents to feed, take care of, or nurture them.
Kits who are born orphans or hatch alone live similar lives. From the beginning, they have to be independent, teaching themselves how to hunt, hide, and survive Gondwa.
Kits avoid other adult Giganotosaurus instinctively, and do not approach other adult Giganotosaurus willingly.
Orphaned kits grow to be fiercely independent and mostly solitary adults, struggling to trust any other individuals with their lives when it comes to hunting or courtship.
Bild
Giganotosaurus thrive in solitude, but may form temporary groupings with other Giganotosaurus of any relation in order to achieve goals or to protect oneself better from threats.
While most of the time bonds remain loose, the strongest typically form between a mother and her daughter, or two brother Giganotosaurus. However, both of these pairings disperse from one another if interested in courtship.
Pairs of Giganotosaurus do not tolerate other pairs of Giganotosaurus within the same POI as them, and either challenge the offenders out or leave themselves if unwilling to fight.
Individuals rub their cheeks up against objects to mark them as theirs. Giganotosaurus may develop favorite trees, rocks, or landmarks that they rub their cheek on every time they pass. This also serves an additional use of being a flag to other Giganotosaurus that others have passed through the area.
Giganotosaurus are more aloof, showing little interest in their offspring or other Giganotosaurus they group with. In this way, they are methodical and unstoppable, pushing prey and other predators to their limits without showing much effort or strain. Their massive size intimidates both members of their own species and other predators away, making them suitable defenders for when nesting occurs and a temporary nesting site is claimed.
Sometimes, a solitary Giganotosaurus approaching too quickly will result in aggression from the other, who will land a few bites if the individual is in their personal space, and then flee.
Giganotosaurus display stress or discomfort by yawning frequently.
Giganotosaurus enjoy resting under the shade, whether it be under a tree or beside a cliff side, in order to temporarily escape the heat. On the other hand, some Giganotosaurus prefer to entirely travel along the coast, letting the sea wind rush over their scales. Beaches are a popular courting place for Giganotosaurus, as they are open and allow great visibility for females.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Giganotosaurus are lazy at night, preferring to take the path of least resistance when it comes to hunting (typically scavenging from AI corpses, eating bones, or hunting critters). They will not migrate unless threatened directly or challenged out of the POI.
They will find deep shrubbery or soft sand to sleep on with their pair or offspring. Males may stay awake slightly longer than their females and offspring in attempt to watch over them, but often fall asleep shortly after them.
During downtime is when Giganotosaurus is most likely to express a brief lapse of tenderness towards their mate or offspring, nuzzling them in order to keep them quiet and carefully cleaning them.
Giganotosaurus may also take positions where they are able to watch over an entire area; however, they will not act on anything they see unless it is a rival that begins to approach them directly -- in which case, they will stand to defend their right to sleep in the POI.
Bild
Giganotosaurus rarely, if ever, form particularly strong bonds with one another, and only do so with repeated grouping and nesting. Even then, if the other Giganotosaurus offends them in any way - or a better opportunity arises - they quickly disband and shun one another.
Giganotosaurus that are interested in grouping with one another must express it in different ways, depending on their sex:
Females that approach others to group must take it slowly, shaking out stress and yawning to indicate that she is no threat.
Males boldly approach other males, examining them to ensure that they are a good fit to travel with before accepting. If a male approaches a female, it typically is for courtship, but if neither are interested in courting or nesting with the other, they may still form a temporary bond of convenience.
All groups split in order to pursue courtship and nesting opportunities.
Giganotosaurus are unbothered within their groupings, which typically are out of convenience, making it easier to hunt and defend oneself.
Over time, if the same pair return to each other across multiple occasions, whether it be to nest or simply to travel together, they begin to show more affection and care for one another, rubbing their faces against each other, sleeping beside each other, and watching over one another while the other heals or rests.
These bonds may prefer to stick together rather than split apart for courting, and are typically a bonded mother and daughter, sisters, brothers, or pairbond of opposite or same sex.
Giganotosaurus may spar with one another in order to develop their fighting skills, or just out of enjoyment.  These fights are agreed upon by both parties and never go below half health.
✦ Solitary Behavior
Giganotosaurus enjoy being solitary and spend their days traveling across Gondwa. Solitary Giganotosaurus often have a small set of preferred areas that they linger in, especially areas where running into other Giganotosaurus is rarer, in order to avoid being challenged.
Solitary Giganotosaurus, especially males, practice their strength by shoving down trees and charging into rocks, which helps them practice their fighting skills in order to defend themselves and females.
Solitary Giganotosaurus do not hunt Apatosaurus or Argentinosaurus. They understand their limits and instead temporarily seek out a partner to hunt with, even if the bond only lasts until the hunt is over, and the body has been eaten.
Solitary Giganotosaurus avoid other paired members of their species, as paired individuals are highly aggressive, unwilling to pass down an opportunity or risk sharing resources. They avoid pairs if they see them if possible, and only defend themselves if attacked.
Solitary Giganotosaurus enjoy bathing in small ponds, especially those at Hotsprings or Whistling Columns.
Solitary Giganotosaurus enjoy the benefits of reduced food competition, lower risk of disease transmission and complete independence from any other Giganotosaurus.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Melanistic Giganotosaurus, while not outright cannibalized like their Albino counterparts, live slightly more challenging lives and hold slight differences to other Giganotosaurus.
Melanistic males, in particular, struggle with courting easily, as they are unable to flush their crests in order to attract females. Instead, they are forced to take a different route, as detailed in Courtship Behaviors.
Melanistic individuals are more temperamental than other non-melanistic Giganotosaurus, meaning that individuals are more likely to form quick bonds that break up quickly over longer lasting ones.
Melanistic individuals benefit from being able to slip into the dark shade of forested areas easily, but also struggle with overheating, especially during the dry season. As a result, melanistic individuals prefer to primarily keep to the shaded areas along forests and tree lines - a choice that has them risking an encounter with Tyrannosaurus, who will not tolerate them in their POI.
Albino Giganotosaurus are cannibalized upon discovery if nested into a clutch, and cannibalized immediately if discovered in adulthood. As a result, albino Giganotosaurus are completely unable to successfully court or nest.
Bild
Pairs of Giganotosaurus are always aggressive towards other pairs and solitary Giganotosaurus, unwilling to share resources with them or exist in the same POI as them. If unwilling to fight, they must immediately leave the POI.
Solitary Giganotosaurus are rarely, if ever, completely aggressive to other solitary Giganotosaurus - unless uninterested in courtship or grouping.
✦ Infanticide
If a nest is discovered by a male who did not father the nest, he may attempt to kill the kits. The parents will fiercely defend their offspring. However, the male's main goal is the kits - if he successfully kills all of them, the parents will give up their attack on him, and the female’s nesting timer will be reset.
Males do not need to stop at an offspring's body drop when slaughtering kits. However, if one of the parents’ body drops during the kits being killed, he must claim the body as his own, and cannot chase after fleeing kits.
Females whose kits have been killed in this way immediately flee from the nesting site and entire POI, forcing the male who killed her kits (and the male who fathered them) to go out in search of her. If either successfully find her, they must attempt to court her in the typical fashion - but risk being rejected completely outright.
Bild
Giganotosaurus generally tolerate most herbivores and carnivores within the same area as long as they are not interested in hunting, unless they are Tyrannosaurus or Tyrannotitan.
Giganotosaurus tolerate scavengers, and enjoy the presence of grooming scavengers such as Compsognathus and Rhamphornhycus.
✦ Tyrannotitan
Giganotosaurus have a fierce rivalry with the nocturnal predator Tyrannotitan. They refuse to share POIs with Tyrannotitan in any capacity and immediately challenge them for the right to remain and to keep the resources. If they lose the challenge, they are forced to leave the POI immediately.
If unable - or unwilling - to challenge, they must leave the POI. They cannot co-exist in the same POI as Tyrannotitan.
Giganotosaurus may challenge Tyrannotitan if they encounter or are awoken by them at night.
Giganotosaurus must attempt to challenge Tyrannotitan before hunting anything else in the POI. Giganotosaurus must challenge adult Tyrannotitan first, and cannot hunt them. However, any individuals that are death scarred, Albino, or adolescent and below may be hunted by Giganotosaurus.
Giganotosaurus may not interrupt an ongoing fight or break body protection rules in order to start a challenge with a Tyrannotitan.
✦ Tyrannosaurus
Giganotosaurus are somewhat wary of Tyrannosaurus, noting how highly territorial and aggressive this species is. Despite this, they may accept challenges in order to retain the right to stay in the POI, or must leave to find a new one.  They cannot co-exist in the same POI as Tyrannosaurus.
If a fight is lost against a Tyrannosaurus, they must immediately flee the POI.
Giganotosaurus may challenge Tyrannosaurus if they encounter or are awoken by them at night.
Giganotosaurus cannot hunt Tyrannosaurus - they must attempt to challenge them. However, they may hunt albinos, deathscarred, and adolescent and below individuals.
Giganotosaurus may not interrupt an ongoing fight or break body protection rules in order to start a challenge with a Tyrannosaurus.
 
Bild
Giganotosaurus will first challenge any other Giganotosaurus (if paired), Tyrannotitan or Tyrannosaurus out of the POI, if within LOS. They cannot hunt these species unless they are deathscarred, albino, Adolescent or below. Otherwise, they prioritize Apex herbivores and Large tiers above other prey.
Giganotosaurus may hunt any tier, but will not hunt Apatosaurus or Argentinosaurus when solitary. They only do so when in a pair, unless the individual is deathscarred, albino, or adolescent and below.
Giganotosaurus are endurance hunters, who prioritize exhausting their prey. While they will land one ripping and tearing bite on their prey, tearing deep bleeding wounds into them, they do not rush fights and prefer to wear their targets down slowly to the point of exhaustion, before rushing in to finish them off.
Giganotosaurus pairs work together closely, giving each other cues to go in one after the other to deepen the wounds the other left. A successful pair can leave a prey weak and exhausted, bleeding out and passing due to their wounds rather than by an onslaught of attacks.
Bild
✦ Courtship
Females who are ready to court will shake and rub their chin on trees, bushes, and rocks, leaving their scent to indicate to males that they are ready to court (:stretch_emote:).
When males pick up this scent, they open their jaws and begin to flush (by using :question_emote: , and changing the colors on their skin).
Males flush colors into their crest, necks and faces in order to indicate readiness to court. Females show immediate aggression to males whose faces are not flushed in this manner if they approach her and they are ungrouped. 
This is especially troublesome for low testosterone and melanistic males, who must attempt a different method of courtship.
Males, with flushed crests, broadcast (:broadcast_call:) at a female from a distance of a minimum of five bodylengths, in order to let her know of his presence. The further the space between them, the longer the male will have to slowly approach the female - so experienced males will take their time and approach her before broadcasting to declare his intent.
If the female is unappreciative of his attempt, or otherwise does not want to court, she will issue an aggressive call towards him and turn away. The male then must move on, or issue an aggressive call (:threaten_call:) in return to initiate a fight to push the female out of the POI.
If the female is interested, she will turn to face him and examine him, before doing a light shake in the male’s direction. Being approached by a stranger male is extremely stressful for young females who have never courted before, and even so for experienced females. As a result, they will yawn often to release stress.
Males must posture, stretch and display their colors, scars, and crests. Females are most impressed by the strongest, largest, and most experienced males, but they also reject males that move too quickly towards them, or those that show any aggression toward them at all.
A male must slowly approach a female, taking his time, and being careful to not rush. He must cautiously observe her body language, noting that frequent yawning is a sign of stress - an indication to slow his pace - and that affectionate calls or shaking at him means that she is interested or entertained.
If he is able to successfully approach her without being aggressed by her, the two will touch noses and nuzzle before affectionately calling to one another. They then set off to build a nest, having established a temporary courtship bond.
If a solitary Giganotosaurus comes across a courting pair, they opt to give the forming pair a wide berth, and will not initiate conflict, in order to avoid being driven off by both individuals.
✦ Low Testosterone / Melanistic Courtship
Males who cannot flush their crests must attempt a different style of courtship. Once he has identified that a female is within the same POI as him, he must stay out of sight in order to not be aggressed.
The first step is to collect an appropriate gift for the female, typically a large critter, or killing another species to present to her. Once he has done so, he broadcasts (:broadcast_call:) repeatedly to call for her.
Females broadcast in return and rush to the area. However, she stops when there is five body lengths of distance between herself and the male, pausing to eye him suspiciously.
This is when the male must then attempt the same behavior as males who can flush their crests - moving slowly and carefully so as to not scare her away, or launch into a fight with her.
As he is unable to soothe females with the bright color of a flushed crest, he must be extra careful to not stress her or aggravate her beyond the point of tolerance.
 
✦ Nesting
After courtship is accepted, the female will pick an appropriate place for her nest, with the male following closely behind her. He aids her to build her nest, and together they fill it with meat to provide sustenance for their hatching young.
The female picks a quiet and isolated place away from more populated or busier areas, ensuring that kits are not discovered in any time away she must take to drink or feed herself.
✦ Parenthood
When kits begin to hatch, the father creates distance between himself and the nest. He hunts and patrols the area to ensure no other Apex carnivores pose a risk to his offspring, and that any prey is swiftly hunted to keep his family fed.
The mother is the first to greet the kits as they tumble from their eggs and into the world, and does so with soft cooing rumbles.
She keeps a very close eye on her kits while they recover from hatching, cleaning them carefully and sniffing them to familiarize herself with their scent.
Once kits are up and on their feet, she will carefully observe kits playing, encouraging them to mock hunt their siblings. However, she does not tolerate a kit bringing one of their siblings to deathscars, and steps forward to chase them back to the nest with a harsh scolding. She will also not tolerate being “hunted” by her offspring.
Mothers additionally do not over extend themselves to feed kits who are non responsive, constantly sleeping, or otherwise sickly.
Giganotosaurus parents, while both assisting one another with the responsibility of feeding, defending, and teaching necessary skills to offspring, are in no way doting.
When kits are first developing their strength, they may attempt to play bite and play with their parents. It is up to the parent whether or not this is tolerated.
While they encourage their offspring with nudges and affectionate calls, especially in the early stages, as offspring grow they become less tolerant and expect offspring to keep up.
If kits are unable to keep pace with their parents, they will be left behind.
Parents do not allow kits to feed directly from a corpse, and tear chunks and drop it in front of them to eat.
Parents will teach kits essential life skills through encouraging them to spar and play, and by initiating hunt on critters.
✦ Offspring Maturity
As the kits begin to reach sub-adult, they begin to develop further in their independence and will drift away from their parents and bonded siblings. Some offspring may stay with their mother once reaching sub-adult, after their father disperses to seek other courting opportunities.
A father will disperse from the group after the they have successfully raised the offspring to sub-adult, pairing up again with one of his children or setting off alone to continue to spread his bloodline across Gondwa. Otherwise, if the pair is interested in courting again, they may remain grouped.
Bild
Elderly Giganotosaurus stop having interest in nesting, and opt to remain solitary as they live out the last years of their lives. Their scales begin to grey out, desaturate or lighten, and they prefer to spend most of their days napping in the sunshine rather than taking on other Giganotosaurus or large prey.
✦ Death
As their time draws near, Giganotosaurus often migrate to beaches or small bodies of water, in order to soothe their aching joints and bodies from years of migration. There, they lay down to sleep, and often pass peacefully there - if not hunted by an aquatic carnivore or something that stumbles across it on the beach.
Giganotosaurus do not mourn other Giganotosaurus, unless it is a parent mourning their kits killed by a predator or another Giganotosaurus. They will mourn briefly, before moving on. 
In addition, individuals may hold resentment towards the Giganotosaurus or predator whom hunted their offspring, and will attempt to hunt them in return– if able.
A Giganotosaurus will also mourn their bonded pair, often by sleeping through an entire day cycle, hiding in the shadows, and refusing to eat.
Bild
None.
Bild
Giganotosaurus males may not flush in order to bait females into approaching and then hunt them. 
Only solitary and ungrouped individuals may court one another. The grouping occurs after a successful courtship.
Giganotosaurus may only cannibalize Albino or deathscarred adult Giganotosaurus. Otherwise, they mainly ignore each other, unless interested in grouping or courtship, or in a pair.
Giganotosaurus bonds are temporary and usually do not last a lifetime, unless the pair successfully raise five litters together. If an existing group consists of individuals unable to court and nest with one another, they must ungroup and separate in order to do so.
Solitary Giganotosaurus do not hunt Apatosaurus or Argentinosaurus, and require a second grouped individual to do so, unless the creature is albino, deathscarred, or adolescent and below.
Rule Exemptions
Giganotosaurus may challenge other Giganotosaurus, Tyrannotitan, and Tyrannosaurus for their body down, even though they cannot hunt them (6.4.1). This is considered a territory challenge, and the losing party must leave the POI or risk being killed. If the Giganotosaurus is successful, they reserve the right to remain in the POI and claim the body down.
Giganotosaurus may not interrupt the hunts of Giganotosaurus, Tyrannotitan, and Tyrannosaurus, or any other carnivore to issue a territory challenge. If unwilling to wait for the hunt to conclude, they may seek out new territory.
Giganotosaurus must challenge out all other Apex terrestrial carnivores from the POI. Additionally, they do not receive a species timer for challenges on Apex terrestrial carnivores after a challenge. 7.7
Giganotosaurus should not immediately try to hunt the species they have just challenged from the POI, unless the other is on deathscars.
Giganotosaurus cannot co-exist in a POI with other Apex terrestrial carnivores. They must either challenge for the right to remain in the POI, or move to a different one.
Giganotosaurus do not hunt Giganotosaurus, unless the rival is Albino or aged Adolescent and below.  If they kill them following a challenge, they can eat from their corpse.
Giganotosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
 
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 02:23
Bild
Bild
Profile in Under 60 Seconds - Video Series
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rrl7hnSX4W4
YouTube
Dynasty Realism
Dynasty Realism: Profiles In Under 60 Seconds - Giganotosaurus
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Giganotosaurus are Apex Diurnal Terrestrial Carnivores.
Giganotosaurus can group up to 2 sub/adults, and unlimited offspring. Giganotosaurus do not adopt.
Giganotosaurus are aggressive.
Giganotosaurus can have up to 2 in an engagement. Parents will always defend their Adolescent and below offspring.
Giganotosaurus may hunt any tier. They cannot hunt Tyrannosaurus or Tyrannotitan, and instead must challenge them for rights to remain in the POI.
Giganotosaurus often do not form close bonds within their own species in adulthood, with the strongest bonds being between a mother and her kits, a pair of brothers, or a lifelong bonded pair.
Giganotosaurus parents show roughly equal level of care when it comes to raising kits, with mothers forming the primary care in the early stages.
Giganotosaurus form temporary groupings and temporary bonds that split again once the opportunity has gone.
Giganotosaurus enjoy water and napping in the shade.
Giganotosaurus have an intense rivalry with Tyrannotitan, and cannot tolerate Tyrannosaurus within the same POI. They must challenge these species first, and cannot hunt them unless specific requirements are met. If they are uninterested in challenging them, they must leave the POI.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-60-75-85 = 240
Combat Weight: 5500
Adjusted Stats:
⁨
- Health increased to 1000 from 800
- Sprint speed increased 5%
- Trot speed increased 10%
- Stamina recovery trotting increased
- Stamina cost while sprinting decreased
⁩ 
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?