Deinosuchus
Deinosuchus was a massive prehistoric crocodile that lived during the Late Cretaceous period, around 80 to 73 million years ago. Growing up to 33 feet long, it was one of the largest crocodyliforms to ever exist. Deinosuchus lived in rivers and coastal environments, preying on dinosaurs and other large animals that ventured near the water’s edge. With its powerful jaws and ambush tactics, it was a dominant predator, capable of taking down prey as large as a hadrosaur.

⁨
Author: Howl & Ania
Photo: RexyTheTRex
Profile inspired by nile crocodiles.
⁩

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 

Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 20.04.2025 01:23
Overview
Details
Apex Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Carnivore
Deinosuchus form temporary pairbonds.
Deinosuchus males are territorial towards other males and Sarcosuchus, and defend large sized territories.
Deinosuchus females are sedentary unless in a mated pair - in which case they are territorial.
Females are tolerated in the territory of unpaired males.
Deinosuchus have an aggressive nature towards the same species. Females are tolerant except when in a mated pair.
Towards other species, Deinosuchus are tolerant.
Deinosuchus may not scavenge from claimed corpses and must contest for a body. Critters and abandoned corpses may be freely eaten.
Deinosuchus cannibalize albinos, and tolerate melanistic individuals.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
2 Sub/Adults comprising: 2 related individuals of the same sex, or a mated pair.
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees
Adoption is situational and may only occur with a mother that already has offspring of a similar age.
Males do not adopt.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Only 1 sub/adult Deinosuchus may enter an engagement or hunt.
Deinosuchus do not defend their partner, nor assist in hunting.
Grouped individuals will share kills with one another.
Mother Deinosuchus defend offspring up until adolescent.
All hunts must begin from water in their preferred POIs.
Deinosuchus may third party any engagement that reaches within 2 body lengths of water.
Deinosuchus may pursue their prey in land until their stamina runs out. If they do not inflict fracture or reduce their prey to deathscars in that time, they must forfeit and return to the water.
They may not stand, sit or lay to regain stamina to continue pursuing in land.
Deinosuchus may utilize water to their advantage and move back and forth from water as needed during a hunt.
Deinosuchus cannibalize albino individuals.
Deinosuchus tolerate scavengers.
Adolescent Deinosuchus do not assist with their parents’ hunts.
Solo Adolescent Deinosuchus may attempt to hunt up to solo Large tier.

Preferred Prey/Diet
Fish form a large part of the diet for Deinosuchus, alongside meat.
Deinosuchus may hunt any tier of creature. They do not bother to hunt Rhamphorhynchus or Compsognathus.
Deinosuchus may only hunt solo adult Deinocheirus that are albino or have open wounds.
They may hunt unattended offspring up to adolescent. Should one or both parents return to defend their young, the hunt must be forfeited.
While they do not hunt others of their kind - except albinos and those on deathscars - any Deinosuchus body may be eaten.
Sarcosuchus are a priority target for Deinosuchus. Males will hunt them or drive them out of their territory, whereas females opt to hunt them over other prey.
Deinosuchus may feed from the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 6 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: No eggs.
Deinosuchus nest anywhere in their preferred POIs along the banks of water sources. Their nests are constructed out of rocks and mud.

Physical Dimorphism
Deinosuchus have no physical dimorphism, but do have behavioral dimorphism.
♀️ Female Deinosuchus greet others of their kind with a wide opening of their jaws (? emote).
♂️ Male Deinosuchus greet each others of their kind with a sharp hiss, and swaying of their heads from side to side (teeth emote).
Behavioral dimorphism for Deinosuchus is mandatory.
 
Growing Up
Offspring Behavior
When Deinosuchus hatch they have an innate instinct to swim, but are too weak to immediately enter the water, and stay within the confines of their nest for the first few moments of their life. Their mother guards both them and the nest closely, returning affectionate calls to her chirping young.
During these early hours, Deinosuchus hatchlings communicate constantly through soft peeps and chirps. Not only reassuring for their mother, these sounds help draw siblings closer together as they wriggle in the nest to huddle in tightly for warmth.
Young that stray too far to the edge of the nest may get nudged back in gently by their mother's snout - or even carried back into it, should they tumble out of it.
Midway through the hatchling stage - where offspring have gathered enough strength - their mother slips back into the water and calls for her offspring to follow her.
Hatchlings struggle onto their feet immediately and make a dash after their mother into the water, where they swim quickly behind her to keep up, letting out a series of high pitched chirps to both her and their siblings. 
These vocalizations help them determine where the rest of their family is at all times, and enables their mother to quickly track down offspring that lag too far behind.
They remain following after their mother for the entirety of this time, only stopping to eat when she provides a meal for them.
As they get to juvenile, Deinosuchus offspring begin to dart after fish and other fast moving creatures beneath the surface. Though their attempts may be clumsy at first, they soon refine their abilities and begin feasting themselves on whatever they can catch in the water. This is sometimes even other hatchling creatures if they are quick enough about it.
Deinosuchus will not share these kills with their siblings or their mother, but they needn't worry - mothers do not intervene in any sibling quarrels, and it is rare for siblings to bully another for their food. Each individual develops their own techniques and hunting methods, branching out from the group slowly as their confidence grows.
Fathers have little to no input on their offspring's lives. They do not bring their offspring any food and nor do they defend them - their contribution is only that they allow them to grow within the confines of their territory without being chased out. Thus, babies pay little attention to their fathers - except not to bother them or get too close.
As they age, and begin to stray further from their mother, they learn not to linger too near their father, lest he decide they are a rival that must be driven out of the territory.
Once adolescence approaches, Deinosuchus develop a stronger independence from their mother and siblings - though some same sex individuals grow close bonds with a particular sibling.
They begin hunting more substantial prey that ventures close enough to the water, and often test their strength against one another in short tussles over basking spots or food. 
These tussles are never serious, and never take an individual below half health.
Their mother stops providing food for them at this point, and no longer tolerates them sharing her meals - forcing them all to learn how to hunt and catch fish fully, if they haven't already refined their abilities.
Adolescents begin to become more exploratory, venturing into deeper and faster moving waters, and straying further from their mother. Their vocalizations become deeper, and less frequent, used only in close contact with familiar individuals.
By Sub-Adult, Deinosuchus offspring are expelled by both parents. Their mother becomes increasingly aggressive towards them - snapping or charging if they stay too close, while their father drives them out entirely.
Mothers may leave the territory and resume her sedentary lifestyle should she not wish to nest again with the same male, but will not tolerate offspring following her. There is a rare exception, however, of a solitary daughter, should she be alone and wish to have a traveling companion.
Fresh Sub-Adults disperse either in same sex pairs or entirely alone, and fan out in different directions, each choosing different water sources to scope out as potential territory or hunting grounds.
Though dispersing from their parents at Sub-Adult, Deinosuchus are not fully physically mature until Adult, and cannot court or nest until then.

Orphaned Behavior
Orphaned Deinosuchus that manage to make it past the mid hatchling stage have a much better chance at survival in comparison to some other apex carnivore species. However, they still lack the privileged upbringing that those with parents (or at least a mother) are granted.
Orphans below the age of adolescence that encounter an adult female with young may find themselves unexpectedly lucky. If they are close in age to her existing brood, they can often slip in among her offspring and be accepted as one of her own.
The adult male in the territory does not distinguish between biological and non-biological young. As long as the orphan remains near the adult female, he will not drive them out, and any offspring in her care are considered his by default.
When adoption is not an option, orphaned Deinosuchus often band together with other orphans of a similar age, forming a dispersal group known as a pod.
These small gatherings offer safety in numbers and shared vigilance, though competition over food remains fierce.
Conflicts are much more frequent in comparison to parented Deinosuchus, but serious injury is rare, with a pecking order quickly establishing within these groups.
Pods remain together until Sub-Adult before dispersing - with individuals of the same sex pairing off if desired, or individuals leaving alone.
In cases where a mother dies while raising her young within a male's territory, the offspring face a new and sudden danger. Adult males do not tolerate young in their territory without their mother around, and will immediately begin driving them out.
General Behavior
Deinosuchus are very lazy crocodilians, often basking on the shore and preferring not to expend too much of their energy.
They adapt surprisingly well to brackish and saltwater environments, tolerating salinity levels that other  freshwater crocodilians cannot. Because of this, they are frequently found near estuaries and beaches.
These powerful swimmers are also known to venture out into the open ocean, using strong tidal currents and their immense stamina to travel between islands or along the coastline in search of better territory, food sources, or mates.
Females are sedentary by nature, lingering in various POIs until they find one with abundant hunting opportunities. They remain there until these resources begin to dwindle, before moving on in search of another fruitful location. 
They sometimes travel with one same sex related individual - this most often ends up being a sister, though sometimes mother and daughter pairs can be spotted together.
Males, on the other hand, are fiercely territorial and defend a medium sized stretch of water from all other male Deinosuchus, and Sarcosuchus. Kaprosuchus are always tolerated within a male's territory.
Males are always solitary, or rarely they may have a strong bond with a brother, and will claim and defend territory together. However, only one may engage at a time.
Females are always permitted to pass through a male's territory, unless the male is already paired with a female. If he is already paired, the new female will be driven out by either sex.
Deinosuchus spend a large portion of the day basking along the banks of rivers, lakes, or the beach. In order to properly regulate their body temperature, they require long exposure to the sun on their thick skin. They lay motionless with their mouths open while they do so - a behavior used to cool the brain, by letting heat evaporate from their open mouths and tongues.
During particularly hot periods - particularly in the Dry Season - they may retreat to cooler waters, or move over to shaded areas to prevent themselves from overheating.
Should prey be spotted whilst basking, Deinosuchus are quick to scurry back beneath the depths, enabling them to lay in wait for a hunting opportunity.
At night, Deinosuchus returns almost exclusively to the water, submerging into deeper water when needing additional warmth.
Deinosuchus need to shed their scales regularly, often sloughing off large pieces at a time. When coming into a shed period, they become more irritable, and stay in shallower waters, rubbing themselves against rocks and logs, and instinctively seeking out small, groomer species to assist them.
They become highly active during periods of rain or storms. Potentially due to the scent of prey being more detectable - or perhaps the temperature shifts - they seem to exhibit signs of excitement: surfacing and breaching suddenly, snapping at raindrops, or patrolling more actively.
Males tend to become much more vocal at night - rising to the surface to make loud vocalizations, and slapping at the water with their jaws.
Deinosuchus is a strong apex predator, but its true abilities shine when it is in water, so they do not favor being on land for long stretches at a time. Traveling far inland is uncommon, and more likely to be exhibited by an ill or aging Deinosuchus. As such, they may not begin a hunt from on land.
Deinosuchus do not enter small pools of water - such as the ponds at Wilderness Peak, Hot Springs, Impact Crater, Whistling Columns or Savanna Grasslands.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Deinosuchus engage in "unihemispheric sleep," where a portion of their brain remains awake to monitor their surroundings; either submered at the bottom of the water, directly below the surface, or on land near water. Even when sleeping beneath the water, they are awake enough to rise to the top to breathe when necessary.
Deinosuchus sleep on land with their mouths open to assist with regulating their temperatures and to allow scavenger cleaning species close to clean their teeth. If these cleaners are careful, Deinosuchus are unbothered, and often do not rouse from their slumber.
Deinosuchus may sleep for up to 17 hours a day; conserving their energy for intense, violent hunts.

Social Interaction
Deinosuchus aren't social creatures by nature, but form a more casual relationship and bond with their partner.
When same sex females travel together, they often communicate in low growls and show light affection towards one another. Males, however, do not show affection to one another and simply form an uneasy truce - though this only ever happens with a brother.
When a male and female pair, the male will dote on the female initially with affection, before backing away to give her space within his territory when eggs begin to hatch.
Deinosuchus rely heavily on posture, movement and vibrations within the water to communicate with one another.
When approaching other Deinosuchus, females open their jaws wide in a large yawn-like motion, signalling their sex to the stranger.
Males, meanwhile, let out loud, rumbling hisses and thrash their heads from side to side - a much more aggressive display, and unmistakable.
Females pay little attention to others and have a more tolerant nature - only reacting aggressively when her space is invaded, or when forming a temporary bond with a male to raise young.
Males only tolerate the presence of females in their territory, and drive out any rival males. They only drive out females when paired with one and raising young.
Males that hold territory for a long time may recognize other males in bordering territories. Over time, both males establish an invisible boundary between the two territories, preferring to hold an uneasy truce with the neighboring male, rather than continuous battles.
Eye contact is kept brief between individuals, with long, deliberate stares being taken as aggression.
 
Aggressive Interaction
Deinosuchus are notoriously food aggressive, even towards their own groupmates. Brothers do not share a meal directly at the same time, with the more submissive male being made to wait until his brother is finished before he can eat from the corpse. 
Females act in just the same way - but expect food to be shared with them when paired with a mate. Males are forced to curb their food aggression in this situation, permitting his female mate to eat from a corpse at the same time.
Males never tolerate another male in his claimed territory with one exception: a brother that they have not separated with since hatching. 
In this instance, both brothers will claim the same territory and remain amicable until a female enters the territory to be courted.
Once a female arrives and shows interest in courtship, the more submissive brother will leave the territory to claim one of his own. This is often - where possible - a bordering territory to his sibling. The withdrawal prevents conflict, and ensures each male maintains access to future mates.
Once brothers have split, they never tolerate each other again and cannot reform a pair with each other.
Females, however, are always tolerated in a male's territory except when he is in a pair with another female.
In such cases, the resident female may drive off the intruding female herself, if the male has not already done so.

Challenging for territory
When a male enters another male's territory and seeks to claim it for himself, he must confront the current owner in a dangerous contest.
The rival male approaches slowly and deliberately, broadcasting his presence through loud, aggressive bellows and deep rumbles.
If the resident male of the territory does not flee, both males must engage in a territory battle. These battles are vicious, with males tearing and ripping at one another with their powerful jaws.
The first male to reach deathscars is forced to leave the area, leaving the other as the winner, and thus the new (or retained) owner of the territory.

Driving out other Deinosuchus
Once a male (or a pair of males) have claimed a territory, all other males are driven out on sight. Paired brothers will still work independently to drive out rivals, and usually patrol different parts of the territory to ensure they are vigilantly checked.
All females are tolerated - unless the male in the territory is already paired with a female to raise young. In this case, either he or his mate may drive out the female.
All Deinosuchus of adolescent and below - regardless of sex - are driven out by males. The only exception is young that are close to a paired female.
Sadly, if a mother dies, her protection dies with her. Her offspring - even if biological offspring to the male - are no longer tolerated, and are forced to flee or be killed.

Defending young
Young are exclusively protected by their mothers. Males are responsible for patrolling the territory and driving out rival males (and females), while mothers defend their offspring.
Offspring that stray too far from their mother may be aggressed by their father while in his territory.
As offspring reach adolescence, mothers no longer defend them.
Cross-Species Interaction
Deinosuchus does not hunt healthy adult Deinocheirus, but may attempt to hunt unprotected Deinocheirus offspring, up to adolescent.
Should an adult return to protect the offspring, Deinosuchus will forfeit the hunt.
Unhealthy Deinocheirus have open wounds or are albino.
Deinosuchus only ever attempts this on solitary individuals.
Deinosuchus tolerate scavengers. They permit them to feed from their claimed corpses once they are full themselves.
Deinosuchus enjoy hunting Sarcosuchus - and males drive them out of their territory when not hunting them, due to their similar niche and pressure they may put on prey and fish stocks within the territory. 
However, if there are 3 Sarcosuchus in the territory, and the male feels unable to drive them out, he must leave for a new territory.
Female Deinosuchus behave similarly to males against Sarcosuchus when they have young within a male's territory, and assist in driving Sarcosuchus out when not hunting them.
Scavenger species are recognized for their grooming abilities. When spotting these species, Deinosuchus slip out of the water and open their jaws, providing access for these nimble creatures to pick out pieces of flesh from between their teeth. They especially appreciate these creatures when shedding.
They do not hunt Rhamphorhynchus or Compsognathus.
All other species are ignored by Deinosuchus, unless hungry.
If challenged by a territorial species, Deinosuchus may opt to defend for the right to remain in the POI, or move on to safer waters.
 
Hunting Strategy
Deinosuchus are ambush hunters, using the water to their advantage to surprise and kill their prey.
They spend plenty of time under the water beside the shore, waiting for terrestrial dinosaurs to venture just a little bit too close.
Deinosuchus may third party any engagement that comes within two body lengths of the water.
Deinosuchus may hunt any tier of creature, but do not bother with Rhamphorhynchus or Compsognathus.
A hunt must begin with Deinosuchus in the water. Prey can then be pursued in land while sprinting until their stamina runs out. If the Deinosuchus has not inflicted fracture, or reduced their prey to deathscars, they must forfeit and return to the water.
They lay motionless beneath the surface, waiting for the right moment to strike and crush their prey with their powerful jaws.
When managing to hunt others in water, they clamp onto their victims and begin "death rolling", turning violently in the water to tear their prey apart.
Sarcosuchus are a priority target for Deinosuchus, and they are hunted above other prey at most instances if the situation is favorable for the Deinosuchus.
 
Courtship & Parenthood
Only fully grown adults are able to court and nest.
Deinosuchus males call nearby females into their territory on most nights during the rainy season if they are unpaired. 
They broadcast loudly, snap their jaws, splash the water and let out long purring noises in a bid to attract a mate.
A female that hears the male's calls and is receptive to courting will follow his broadcasts, and call out to him as she approaches, letting out low growl and purring of her own to signal her presence.
The male continues his display and splashing, thrashing his jaws on the surface to create sharp slapping sounds, and lifting his head up high to expose his throat.
Females will observe the performing male for a while, swimming very slowly and carefully as she investigates. Especially scarred males can prove extra impressive, and help sway her decision.
Should the female show no interest, she simply moves on from the territory, leaving the still-performing male behind to seek out a different mate.
However, if she deems him an impressive specimen, she rises to the surface, mirroring his body language by lifting her head to expose her own throat, and letting out low, deep rumbles.
Once noticing her interest, the male stops his performance, and moves closer, bumping his snout against hers and returning affectionate calls.
Should both parties be content with their choice, the pair will then swim together briefly, keeping themselves close, with the male leading the female around the borders of his territory to search for a suitable nesting location. They group together in game, forming a temporary pairbond.
When a suitable nesting location is found, the male will shower the female with affection, and assist her in collecting the necessary resources to build the nest, which they construct together.
After its construction, the female lays her eggs and remains close to the nest at all times, only breaking away to eat - but quickly returning afterwards. The male resumes the patrol of the territory, and begins driving out both males and females that dare to enter.
Once hatchlings begin to wiggle out of their eggs, the female no longer leaves the nest to hunt or fish, and resolves herself to guarding her brood fiercely, knowing that she will not eat again until her young are mobile.
She lays beside the nest, casting her eyes over them protectively, and carefully nudging any hatchlings back inside that get a little too close to the edge of the nest.
Should a baby actually tumble outside of the nest at this stage, the mother will gently clasp them in her jaws and gingerly place them back into the safety of the nest.
When offspring reaches the mid hatchling stage, mothers slip back into the water, calling affectionately for her babies to follow. Now with enough strength to do so, hatchlings scurry after her, chirping loudly as they do so.
The female then begins to teach her young how to swim, listening carefully for any young that fall too far behind - and is quick to round them up again should they leave too much distance between her and them.
The father, meanwhile, busies himself with patrolling the territory. He does not offer input on childrearing, and tolerates his young in his territory so long as they remain close to their mother.
Mothers willingly provide meals for their young - ranging from well-timed ambushes that bring down struggling prey to catching fish, which are shared without question with her offspring.
This continues up until adolescence - where mothers abruptly stop both providing and sharing food, and aggressing offspring away when they attempt to eat from the same corpse or fish. This behavior helps to prepare offspring for independence as they mature, and encourages them to engage in their own hunts.
As young reach Sub-Adult, both parents will begin aggressively driving them out - even attacking if their young do not take the message. Mothers may opt to travel with a single daughter if not wishing to nest with the same male again, but males will not accept a son as a companion in their territory.

Adoption
Unrelated offspring may become adopted if they can sneak their way in amongst a female's biological young. If they are of a similar age and size, many mothers presume them to be one of their own, and continue caring for them.
Males never adopt others, but will tolerate any offspring that are nearby the female in his territory - presuming them all to be his.
Elderly & End of Life (Optional)
As Deinosuchus age, they become slower and lazier, with fast dashes on land (or in water) kept to a minimum, replaced instead with leisurely ambles.
After a life shaped by hunting and battles, Deinosuchus start to pick their challenges and hunting opportunities more carefully. Hunting spots are kept to proven and known areas, where success is more likely, and less troublesome prey is sought out.
In particular, females lose interest in courtship, with egg production slowing considerably. Though they are not rendered fully infertile, they have significantly fewer clutches.
Elderly Deinosuchus stick to more inland water sources, and spend much more time basking on land.
As they age, they become increasingly prone to confusion, losing track of typical migration routes and favorable water sources - and even turn to wandering too far in land.
Sadly, this often hastens the demise of these crocodilians, with especially disoriented individuals ending up in arid areas and far from a water source - and vulnerable to terrestrial predators.
Notes
Females will only adopt when they have young of their own of a similar age. They do not consciously decide to adopt - instead they confuse unrelated offspring with their own when they get close.
All hunts for Deinosuchus must begin in water. Prey can be up to 2 body lengths away from the water, but still within lunge range. Prey can be pursued inland until all stamina is drained while sprinting. If fracture is inflicted, or the prey is on deathscars, Deinosuchus may continue pursuing past this point.
Deinosuchus must be in water to third party an ongoing engagement. They can 3rd party if hunter or hunted reaches up to 2 body lengths from the water.

Rule Exemptions
Deinosuchus may not hunt outside of preferred POIs. 4.2
Deinosuchus may third party any engagement that comes within 2 body lengths of their water. 3.18
Deinosuchus males may attempt to drive off or kill any unattended or unrelated offspring in his territory. 8.4

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-60-75-85 = 240 total
Combat Weight: 6000
Clamp Weight: Up to 3900 Combat Weight
Adjusted Stats:
⁨⁨
- Combat weight increased to 6000 from 5500
- Increased health from 900 to 1000
- Sprint speed reduced by 10%
⁩⁩ 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 21:13
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 02.08.2026 00:22
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Deinosuchus are Apex Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Carnivores.
Deinosuchus group up to 2 adults in a grouping known as a pair. They can have unlimited offspring, and unlimited adoptees - but only females adopt, and only when they have similarly aged offspring. Pairs must be 2 related individuals of the same sex, or a mated pair.
Deinosuchus are aggressive.
Deinosuchus can have up to 1 in an engagement.
Deinosuchus can have up to 1 in a hunting party.
Deinosuchus may third party any engagement that reaches within 2 body lengths of water.
Deinosuchus hunt exclusively from water, but may pursue their prey in land until their stamina runs out. If they do not inflict fracture or reduce their prey to deathscars in that time, they must forfeit and return to the water.
Deinosuchus tolerates scavengers, and enjoys the grooming services they provide.
Deinosuchus males are highly territorial, controlling a patch of water which they drive out other males from. Females are sedentary, and are allowed to swim between different male territories, but stop being permitted if a male is paired with a female already.
Deinosuchus target Sarcosuchus where possible, preferring to keep their waters clear of these species, which can infringe upon their niche, fish stocks, and prey opportunities.
Deinosuchus have behavioral dimorphism, with females greeting each other with a wide opening of their jaws, while males greet with a sharp hiss, and head sways.
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?