Ceratosaurus
Ceratosaurus was a medium-sized theropod dinosaur known for its distinctive horn on its nose, and crests over its eyes. It had a long tail, sharp teeth, and was likely a fast, agile predator. Fossils of Ceratosaurus have been found in North America, dating back to the Late Jurassic period.

⁨⁨⁨
Author: Skylark_29
Photo: Dawningg
Profile inspired by wolves and general in-game behaviors for the species.
⁩⁩⁩

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 11.01.2025 15:53
Overview
Details
Medium Nocturnal Terrestrial Carnivore
Ceratosaurus form temporary pairbonds.
Ceratosaurus are sedentary.
Ceratosaurus have a tolerant nature.
Ceratosaurus may not scavenge from claimed corpses, and must contest for a body. Critters and abandoned corpses may be freely eaten.
Ceratosaurus tolerate melanistic individuals, but males will never be courted. Albinos of either sex will be shunned.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
6 Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees - only if the pack have similar-age offspring already present..

This group is known as a pack.

Additionally, Ceratosaurus may form dispersal groups consisting of unlimited individuals of Adolescent and below.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Only 4 adult Ceratosaurus may enter an engagement or hunt at any one time.
Offspring are permitted to join hunts by running alongside adults, but are not allowed to engage in combat.
Where possible, Ceratosaurus prefer to contest for an already-claimed body before hunting. 
Contesting for a claimed body can be done at any time of day regardless of activity schedule.
If a claimed body is present in the POI, Ceratosaurus must challenge for this body before initiating a hunt on other prey, if they are able to.
Ceratosaurus can hunt up to Large tier if the pack numbers fewer than 4 adults.
Ceratosaurus can hunt Apex tier only when there are 4 adults in the hunting party.
Ceratosaurus may tolerate scavengers if full.

Preferred Prey/Diet
Rather than hunting living prey, Ceratosaurus will always go for prey that has already been killed. They love a challenge, and will contest for the rights to the body.
Contesting for a claimed body can be done at any time of day regardless of activity schedule.
If a claimed body is present in the POI, Ceratosaurus must challenge for this body before initiating a hunt on other prey, if they are able to.
Ceratosaurus can hunt up to Large tier if the pack numbers fewer than 4 adults.
Ceratosaurus can hunt Apex tier only when there are 4 adults in the hunting party.
Ceratosaurus, however, will prioritise Albertaceratops and Nasutoceratops, or Medium tier and below dinosaurs, if within LOS.
Ceratosaurus may feed from the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects.

Nesting Limits
🌧️ Rainy Season: 2 🥚 per 2 hours.
☀️ Dry Season: 4 🥚 per 1 hour.
Ceratosaurus nest in caves or rocky areas within their preferred POIs. Their nests are made of bones, rock and mud.

Physical Dimorphism
♀️ Females have much smaller crests above their eyes which are duller in color. Their body is more uniform in pattern, patterns tend to be less defined and more faded in appearance.
Suitable female subspecies: Nasicornis.
♂️ Males have much larger crests above their eyes that are brightly colored, and more complex, striking patterns on their body.
Suitable male subspecies: Dentisulcatus or Magnicornis.
Both sexes have varying colors, sometimes bright and sometimes darker, this can be influenced by the size of the pack that the individual is raised in. Those raised in smaller packs tend to stay closer to their natural colouring of warm and dark muted tones, while those raised in a larger pack tend to develop brighter, flashier colouring. This is in response to the greater competition for future mates. An individual with brighter colours is more likely to attract the attention of the opposite gender during courtship.
Physical dimorphism for Ceratosaurus is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
 
Growing Up
Offspring Behavior
Baby Ceratosaurus are known as whelps. Offspring are born and reared in a dedicated den site.
Hatchling Ceratosaurus are agile and quick to move from an early age. They rely on staying in the den area to avoid predators and spend their time indulging their inquisitive nature and exploring caves and burrows in the immediate area.
Whelps that leave the close area surrounding the den are quickly herded back by patrolling adults; particularly stubborn offspring are given a stern aggressive call to remind them of their position within the pack.
Like their adult counterparts, young Ceratosaurus have an insatiable hunger, and broadcast frequently at nearby adults for food. The smell of blood and bones is incredibly enticing for Ceratosaurus, and clumsy whelps sometimes accidentally bite one another in excitement as they rush to eat whatever morsel is provided. This is generally ignored, as the scent of fresh blood intermixes with the prey’s. 
Receiving multiple injuries while eating will cause the individual to retreat quickly and re-join the feast from a safer position.
Siblings tolerate each other, rather than form close bonds. Due to their constant appetite, siblings prioritise their own hunger over sharing with others, and care little about the condition of weaker siblings. Ceratosaurus young are lazy in nature and do not actively bully one another, but will naturally start to exclude any sibling they view as weak.
On reaching the juvenile age, whelps are permitted by the pack to leave the boundaries of their den, and accompany adults on their patrols in the surrounding area.
Some juvenile aged youngsters take a shine to a particular adult, regardless of blood relation, and look to these adults as a sort of mentor. They often stroll alongside their chosen parental figure and mimic their behaviors. Adults indulge this mimicry and feel a sense of pride at being chosen, and will show small gestures of affection to the youngster as it grows. 
Whelps grow out of this by the end of their adolescence as they grow into their independence. Friendly bonds formed between these individuals sometimes stray into adulthood.
When youngsters reach adolescence, budding hunters test their combat skills by initiating mock fights with each other and occasionally a playful adult. There is no real hostility in these clumsy encounters, and they only rarely draw actual blood. 
Injuries sustained from fighting immediately attract the attention of nearby pack adults, and the injured party is thoroughly checked over before being allowed to escape.
At adolescence, keen offspring are permitted to tag along with a hunt to learn key skills. They are, however, not allowed to engage directly with the prey. Adults try their best to keep the excited offspring out of harm's way, but accidents are not uncommon.
Orphaned Behavior
Orphaned whelps are very flighty without the safety of a pack. They stick to dense undergrowth and heavily wooded areas, and tread cautiously.
Orphans are keen to seek out a Ceratosaurus pack to join. This must be done carefully as adult males will kill stranger-whelps if discovered in the open.
If the orphan manages to reach a den-site and sneak up to pack-offspring, the adults will not be able to tell it apart from their blood relations. They treat it as one of their own, and adopt it without question. 
Orphaned Ceratosaurus are only adopted if the pack have similar-age offspring already present.
An orphaned Ceratosaurus that reaches adulthood without a pack may behave differently from those who have been raised with one. They remain flighty and will take pieces of food quickly, retreating to a "safe" distance before coming back for another.
 
General Behavior
Ceratosaurus strongly prefer woodland habitats and forest clearings. They patrol the perimeter of whichever POI they are currently staying in, and if prey is scarce they will move to another POI - unless nesting.
Patrols are not always accompanied, as Ceratosaurus enjoy solo patrols as often as grouped ones.
They keep in touch with one another through soft grunts while in close proximity, and broadcast loudly when distanced from one another.
Ceratosaurus will roam a POI for hours at a time, constantly on the lookout for prey. The smell of blood immediately lures in Ceratosaurus, and already wounded prey tend to be their first target.
At dawn, the pack gathers at a chosen sheltered location known as a den-site. They sleep in close proximity to one another through the daylight hours, and if offspring are born they are raised at this site.
Ceratosaurus will often clean their entire head in a pool of water to ensure their crests and nose horns are clean and ready to attract the attention of others.
✦ Downtime Behavior
At dawn, the pack gathers at a chosen sheltered location known as a den-site.
They sleep in close proximity to one another through the daylight hours, and if offspring are born they are raised at this site.
One individual in the pack may opt to stay awake briefly to watch over the rest of the pack while they rest.
During the daytime, Ceratosaurus may challenge for bodies and move around, as long as they make an effort to rest at some point throughout the day.
 
Social Interaction
Males and females are relatively equal in a pack, females prefer patrolling with company while males prefer patrolling alone but this depends on individual preference more than set gender roles.
Ceratosaurus is not an overly-affectionate species, but pack loyalty runs deeply in their veins. Pairs will exhibit loving and caring behaviour only during courtship and towards whelps that are adolescent and younger. At dawn, the pack gathers at their chosen den-site and curls up together, greeting one another with friendly calls.
Within their pack, Ceratosaurus are vocal and friendly with one another, communicating in chuffs, grunts, growls and snorts. Playful individuals engage in mock fighting with youngsters, and sometimes supplement their greeting grunts with a cheeky head bobbing.
Friendships are built within the pack through teamwork; hunting together, sharing food, and taking care of whelps.
Individuals that have a strong connection with one another spend more time in each other’s personal space, eating directly next to one another, shaking their heads against each other’s back, and communicating with soft calls.
While Ceratosaurus do not pair up other than temporarily for courting, two individuals may form a closer bond than friendship and this can include same sex pairings.
Ceratosaurus engage in frequent play fights as a way to bond and sharpen their skills. These interactions include roughhousing, shoving one another, and playful nips. 
Sometimes in these play fights they will push each other into lakes or rivers, turning their games into chaotic splash-filled brawls. When the play gets too intense, other pack members will push between the fighting pair and alarm-call, ending of the scrap and ensuring no life-threatening injuries occur.
Despite their aggressive play style, Ceratosaurus hold no grudges, maintaining harmony in their pack structure.
A lone individual or pair wishing to join an existing Ceratosaurus pack will wait at the edge of the POI for the right introduction opportunity. Ceratosaurus packs are generally inquisitive about new members, and will broadcast in excitement at finding a potential rival or prospective new member.
If there is space in the group for new members, a Ceratosaurus pack will usually accept new members after a careful inspection.
New members bringing gifts of meat are welcomed more readily as they have proven themselves a successful hunter who will contribute to the pack’s survival.
Neutral interactions between two packs (see Aggressive Interaction) can very rarely result in a swapping of members - if the other pack has space for them. One member may be impressed with the strength of the other pack, and choose to leave their current pack to seek more courting opportunities.
The pack member who wishes to switch packs will move forward between the two packs, and stretch out their body, lifting their nose into the air. The other pack watches this carefully and either accepts with friendly calls, or rejects with alarm calls.
Before the Ceratosaurus switches their pack loyalty, they turn back to their old pack and the members gather around shaking their heads softly against their body in farewell, wishing them well with their new adventure.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Albino Ceratosaurus are shunned and viewed as sickly individuals. Only those born into a pack are allowed to remain within the pack if there is room, though are the first to be pushed out.
Albino Ceratosaurus are not accepted into packs and are never courted.
Melanistic Ceratosaurus are viewed as female, regardless of gender. Males are never courted due to their lack of a bright crest. Females face no issues during courtship.
Aggressive Interaction
When two packs meet, they bunch together in their separate packs and perform fierce displays to one another from a short distance away. These displays include biting at the air with a dramatic delayed bite, broadcasting their voices, and aggressively calling. 
Any whelps under the age of Adolescent remain hidden in the den-site.
A smaller pack will always back away and retreat, shaking off the encounter, and choosing to move to another POI to reside in.
If pack numbers are equally matched, they will broadcast repeatedly and eventually both retreat in separate directions. Packs are proud, but ultimately respectful of one another and will always keep to separate POIs to prevent clashing for hunting opportunities.
Ceratosaurus packs never actually engage with one another; they are not territorial or aggressive in nature, but equally they do not share a POI with other packs due to the availability of prey.
Aside from play fighting, no serious aggression exists within the pack; individuals that are courting are always given their privacy and there are never any challenges over mates.
Ceratosaurus do not kill one another, except with orphaned offspring that are discovered outside of the den-site. The corpse is not eaten, as they are not cannibalistic.
Cross-Species Interaction
Ceratosaurus are not territorial, but will defend the area around their den-site from all other dinosaurs when they have whelps.
Small to medium species are hunted when possible, while larger dinosaurs are mostly ignored unless the pack is very hungry.
Carnivores of a similar size are particularly disliked, but are tolerated if the pack is not hungry. They will keep an eye on them and hunt at the next opportunity.
Ceratosaurus that are challenged by territorial dinosaurs take great pleasure in displaying themselves aggressively towards the challenging species. 
A challenge is met with equal force if the pack matches the strength of the opponents. Ceratosaurus are a confident, ferocious species that show bloodthirsty tendencies, and enjoy combat if given the opportunity. 
Even if winning the fight seems unlikely, the Ceratosaurus pack will still call loudly and may mock-charge or use mock-bites from a distance before fleeing the challenge.
 
Hunting Strategy
Only 4 adult Ceratosaurus may enter an engagement or hunt at any one time.
Rather than hunting living prey, Ceratosaurus will always go for prey that has already been killed. They love a challenge, and will contest for the rights to the body.
Contesting for a claimed body can be done at any time of day regardless of activity schedule.
If a claimed body is present in the POI, Ceratosaurus must challenge for this body before initiating a hunt on other prey, if they are able to.
Ceratosaurus can hunt up to Large tier if the pack numbers fewer than 4 adults.
Ceratosaurus can hunt Apex tier only when there are 4 adults in the hunting party.
Ceratosaurus, however, will prioritise Albertaceratops and Nasutoceratops, or Medium tier and below dinosaurs, if within LOS.
Offspring are permitted to join hunts by running alongside adults, but are not allowed to engage in combat.
Ceratosaurus prefer hunting in a pack where possible, and will stalk their prey if the opportunity presents itself.
When a hunting party of up to 4 Sub/Adults, sometimes with accompanying non-engaged adolescents, comes across prey that hasn’t noticed them yet, they will remain quiet and crouch low to the ground while walking forward using their forest environment to their advantage to remain hidden while stalking.
Once a hunting party is close enough to the prey, or risk being noticed, they rush forwards together and take turns attacking the prey.
Ceratosaurus keep to their pack instinct and if an individual brings down prey alone, they will broadcast to summon the rest of the pack to share the feast. If the pack has offspring, the adults will carry back scraps of meat to the den-site for the whelps to enjoy.
If Ceratosaurus comes across prey while alone, or comes across an Apex they wish to hunt but are under the required 4 adults to take on the much larger opponent; they will rush back towards their pack mates and excitedly head-bob, followed by running in the direction of the prey and looking back to encourage the rest of the pack to follow - before returning to stalk the prey together.
Ceratosaurus is not cannibalistic and does not kill or eat corpses of their own species - except with orphaned offspring that are discovered outside of the den-site. The corpse of a killed stranger-whelp is not eaten, as they are not cannibalistic.
If a kill is large and meat is plentiful, Ceratosaurus will tolerate scavengers.
 
Courtship & Parenthood
Ceratosaurus are promiscuous courters and no jealousy exists within a pack; males do not challenge one another for courting rights.
Courting takes place at dusk when the sky is pink and Ceratosaurus feel an excited with the incoming night as they start to wake and ready themselves for patrolling or hunting.
Courting is initiated by females, which pick a male with qualities they admire; this may be a male she has formed a close bond with, one with particularly striking patterns with contrasting colors, bright crests, or one who has proven himself an experienced hunter. Both male and female Ceratosaurus find scars to be an attractive quality.
Females start to exhibit more flirtatious behaviour such as stalking low to the ground towards a male she is interested in, and catching his attention, before stretching out to display herself. 
A male that is interested in accepting her advances to court will stretch himself out in response to her, and perform excited head-bobs repeatedly. Females scrutinise the display carefully and if they choose to accept, they move closer into his personal space with soft friendly-calls.
The male leads the female away to a more private location where they sit together and exchange affectionate calls before building their nest.
Females will not approach other males to court once they have chosen and been accepted by one male. They remain loyal to their chosen partner for the duration of the courting event.
Males do not have any particular preference in the appearance of their chosen mate, choosing instead to respond favorably to females that have shown skill in hunts and dedication to the pack. However, both male and female Ceratosaurus find scars to be an attractive quality.
Ceratosaurus with melanism are considered female, regardless of gender. Males with melanism are never courted due to their lack of bright crests. Melanistic females are treated without prejudice. Albinism is considered sickly and individuals are shunned. They are never accepted into new packs and they are never courted.
Once mated, the pair may form a temporary bond and while in the process of building the nest and incubating the eggs, the male will sometimes offer choice pieces of meat to the female to ensure the healthy gestation of their young.
When the female is ready, she lays her eggs at the den-site, ideally within a cave or sheltered rock formation. Once eggs are laid and hatchlings are born, the male and female end their pairbond and resume the normal social behaviour of pack life.
When hatchlings are born, adults within the pack approach carefully to inspect the new brood and greet their new pack members. This behaviour helps strengthen the pack bond, and allows each member to learn the new scents of their whelps.
The mother and father of the clutch have no special part in raising the young, this responsibility is shared equally among all pack members. Biological parents keep some awareness of their bloodline, and will refuse to mate with individuals that are too closely related.
Multiple nestings are preferred, as the raising of offspring is shared. If the pack notice that a pair has decided to mate, they often feel encouraged to choose a mate themselves. Nests are always built side-by-side to encourage whelps to mix together and bond.
As offspring reach Sub-Adult, the pack prefers to keep on as many members as it can. If the group limit is reached, the existing adults feel the pressure of having too many mouths to feed and will decide unanimously to evict aged-out offspring if necessary. Pack adults gather together and face off the new adult, calling out aggressively to make sure they are not misunderstood. If the individual does not understand, the adult may push forward and snap at the air to get their message across.
 
Elderly & End of Life (Optional)
Ceratosaurus are tough and resilient dinosaurs, rarely showing much slowing down as they age. They may experience hearing loss and increased fatigue, but no slowing of movement or loss of vision.
As Ceratosaurus age, their skin displays more scars, showing their long life spent in battles with opponent and hunting dangerous prey. What were once striking, complex patterning with bright colors, fades into muted tones and indistinct patterns.
Elderly pack members focus more and more on the whelps in the pack, growing fond in their old age, and can be found snoozing in the den-site while listening to youngsters playing with one another.
Older Ceratosaurus take longer and longer to wake from sleeping, as their hearing isn’t as good as it was in their youth and they feel more tired. Pack members show concern to this behaviour, gathering around the Elder to nudge and call at them to help wake them up.
With their growing concern, pack adults are less willing to allow an Elder to go on patrols alone, or spend any time alone at all. This is for fear that the Elder does not hear the broadcasting calls when the pack communicates across the POI.
When an Elder finally passes away, the pack gather together to mourn their dead. They spend time sleeping next to the corpse, and will defend it from predators and scavengers until it decays naturally.
Pack members mourn their dead from a distance, if a member dies as part of an engagement or failed hunt. They do not defend carcasses, and respect the opposition that managed to kill them.
Notes
None

Rule Exemptions
Males will kill orphan whelps if caught in the open. 8.4
Ceratosaurus never eat bodies of their own kind, even if they kill an orphan whelp. 5.3
Ceratosaurus may challenge for bodies during day. 1.4

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 2600
Adjusted Stats:
⁨⁨
- Health increased to 750 from 600
- Carrion feeder range increased to 10000 from 7500
- Chomp bone break amount increased to 25 from 18
⁩⁩⁩ 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 02:39
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Ceratosaurus are Medium Nocturnal Terrestrial Carnivores.
Ceratosaurus can group up to 6 sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees. Ceratosaurus only adopt if they have similarly aged offspring.
Ceratosaurus are tolerant.
Ceratosaurus can have up to 4 in a hunting party, and must challenge for a claimed body if one is present in the POI, before hunting living prey - this can be done at any time of day.
Ceratosaurus may hunt up to Large tier if less than 4 in a hunting party, and up to Apex tier with 4 in a hunting party. Ceratosaurus may not scavenge.
Ceratosaurus form closely bonded packs and make strong bonds between individuals. These loyalties result in packs lasting until their elder years.
Ceratosaurus enjoy play-fighting with each other, shoving one another into bodies of water. However, these sparring matches will never result in a Ceratosaurus becoming seriously injured.
Ceratosaurus form temporary pairbonds – they will only nest with one individual at a time per courting event. Courting takes place at dusk.
Ceratosaurus are not cannibalistic and will never eat the bodies of a fallen Ceratosaurus, whether it be a pack member or stranger whelp.
Ceratosaurus refuse to share POIs with other packs of Ceratosaurus, but are not territorial towards them. While two opposing packs may share aggressive calls and posture at one another, it will never escalate into an engagement.
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?
Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Ceratosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic, Mountain Piebald, Ghost Piebald, Roan
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

This will be formatted in the correct place when the updated profile releases!