Daspletosaurus
    "Dasp", "Daspleto"
Daspletosaurus is a tyrannosaurid theropod dinosaur that roams Gondwa and Riparia in small packs, led by a dominant, bonded male pair. Females work together to raise offspring, and fiercely stand their ground in their defense.  These intelligent hunters work together to herd prey into dead ends and corners, making easier kills. Daspletosaurus are confident and unstoppable, working together to best their opponents and prey.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Red, Cost, & CrownlessCrow
Photo: Byuul
Profile inspired by cougars, dingoes, and creative liberty.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.05.2026 02:45
Overview
Bild
Large Cathemeral Terrestrial Carnivore
Daspletosaurus form temporary bonds.
Daspletosaurus are nomadic.
Daspletosaurus have an aggressive nature.
Daspletosaurus are not scavengers.
Daspletosaurus cannibalize albino and tolerate other mutated individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Daspletosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 6 Sub/Adults, led by a dominant male/male pair. If there are no dominant males available, there may be up to 4 Sub/Adult females in the group, leaving room for potential males.
Unlimited Offspring
Daspletosaurus do not adopt.

This group is known as a pack.
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 3 Daspletosaurus may take part in a hunt. One individual herds prey towards the other two hunters in its party. 
The "herder" flushes prey towards hunters. 
The hunters lie in wait to ambush their prey.
After the hunt has been started, the hunting party works together to herd prey, cornering them if possible.
Up to 3 Daspletosaurus may assist in defense and challenges.
Up to 2 Adolescent Daspletosaurus may remain within 10 bodylengths of a hunt to observe. They may not land bites, but may assist with herding prey. If attacked by a target, they will flee, and may not return to the hunt.
Adolescents hide when hunted or challenged.

Hunting Limit: 
    
Solitary Daspletosaurus may hunt up to Large tier. They may also hunt protected and unprotected offspring up to Adolescent of any tier.
2+ Daspletosaurus may hunt up to Apex tier.

Solitary Daspletosaurus avoid Apex carnivore pairs.
Solitary Daspletosaurus, without the assistance of another, will attempt to ambush potential targets, or target offspring in nests.
Solitary adolescent Daspletosaurus may hunt small tier and below.

Preferred Prey
1-2 Daspletosaurus hunt Lambeosaurus before all other prey.
Full hunting parties of 3 target Parasaurolophus or Lambeosaurus before all other prey.
If Lambeosaurus is not available, solitary Daspletosaurus will target offspring of Adolescent and below of any tier.
Daspletosaurus target herbivores over carnivores if given multiple options.
Dominant males or male pairs will immediately cannibalize albino offspring when noticed.
Daspletosaurus may not feed from Metriacanthosaurus corpses without suffering adverse effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.
Nesting Limits
☀️ 🌧️﻿ Dry/Rainy Season: 1-5 🥚﻿ per 3 hours
You must use the bot command /rolleggs Daspletosaurus in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to determine the eggs your female lays before making your nesting post. You must link this roll inside of the nesting post. 
Daspletosaurus nest in caves, deep foliage, crevices in rocks, or beneath tree roots.
Daspletosaurus may form same-sex pairs, and sometimes still opt to nest with opposite sex individuals. They may not adopt.

Physical Dimorphism
Daspletosaurus have color dimorphism, with males having concentrated and high-contrast flashes of colors on their bodies, whilst females showcase dull colors with little contrast.
♀️ Females are dull in color, with similar patterning and color schemes across their entire body. Females are more submissive than males.
♂️ Males have high-contrast flashes of color on their body - such as on their faces, necks, or backs. Males are more dominant, and lead Daspletosaurus social groups. 
Melanistic male Daspletosaurus are seen as female.
Physical dimorphism for Daspletosaurus is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
This profile permits high T/low T individuals. High T females are more dominant in behavior, and may have bright flashes of color on their bodies. Low T males are more submissive in behavior, and may lack color on their bodies.
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Daspletosaurus offspring, known as cubs, hatch completely blind, deaf, and defenceless.
Mothers keep their babies hidden away for the majority of their hatchling phase.
Daspletosaurus cubs do not make a sound while in the nest, remaining quiet and unassuming; instinctually in tune with their own self-preservation. Mothers often leave their nest unattended to hunt for food, draw predators away, or patrol the area around their nest.
By Juvenile, cubs are capable of standing up and moving around, and start to leave the safety of their nest - under their mother's watch.
Young cubs explore the world with their mouths, nipping at their surroundings, including the tails of other clutchmates and similarly aged young.
A nipped tail often results in a cry for their mother, who comforts the cub.
Cubs do not playfight with each other at this stage.
Daspletosaurus juveniles instinctually start to herd and hunt critters they encounter, with full encouragement from their mother.
In larger clutches, some cubs are inclined to act as the ‘herders’ and drive critters towards the ‘hunters’.
Despite this, cubs do not participate in active hunts or engagements with their parents, and flee for cover.
As they reach Adolescent, Daspletosaurus cubs grow bolder in their actions, sometimes even chasing smaller dinosaurs of Small tier or lower - but never attempt a hunt against these dinosaurs.
Adolescent male Daspletosaurus branch away from their mothers and begin to mirror the behavior of their father - though their father never pays them much attention; beyond protecting them if attacked.
Adolescent female Daspletosaurus mirror the behaviors of their mother.
Adolescent Daspletosaurus are more inclined to fighting with each other to establish dominance. Males in particular use this to bond with others in their clutch.
These fights rarely reach below half health, and mothers issue corrective bites to any offspring that show signs of hyper-aggression. These bites are never fatal.
As cubs reach Sub-Adult, they are almost fully independent from their parents, and at this point males usually have established bonds with others in their clutch, if any.
Sub-Adult Daspletosaurus often disperse from their parents' pack to pursue courting or socialization outside their family group.
A male may opt to stay if he has bonded with his father enough to become his dominant male partner.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned Daspletosaurus cubs rarely survive. Without the regular care of their mother, they are extremely vulnerable.
These orphaned offspring do not move for the first portion of their life until they reach Juvenile.
Because of their instinctual independence, orphaned Daspletosaurus do not seek out packs to join initially, and if encountered by a pack are chased away. 
Orphaned Daspletosaurus are never adopted.
They spend the majority of their time hiding in dense undergrowth, and sneaking past larger dinosaurs. Orphaned cubs typically grow up more cautious and aware of their surroundings.
By Adolescence they have gained confidence enough to start hunting Small tier and below dinosaurs and target these species first.
Daspletosaurus Adolescents flee from all dinosaurs Medium tier and above and attempt to evade them by hiding. They will only turn to defend themselves if they are cornered.
By Sub-Adult, orphaned Daspletosaurus have gained enough confidence in themselves to defend themselves and begin to seek out a pack of their own.
Bild
Daspletosaurus are generally very haughty and confident individuals that spend most of their lives learning and coordinating their hunting tactics.
This species is very intelligent and strategic, but relies heavily on the bonds it makes with other individuals to achieve hunting success. 
Males, in particular, form strong bonds with their fathers, brothers, or even other unrelated males in order to maintain claims of and court females.
These dominant male pairs will also lead the pack in hunting, and may opt to have a submissive male or a female assist, acting as a “herder.”
Daspletosaurus trail herds for long distances, especially Hadrosaurus herds consisting of Parasaurolophus or Lambeosaurus. They are careful to not be noticed by these flighty species.
Daspletosaurus exist in dense forests and rocky cliff regions. Regions like this provide ample hunting opportunity and difficult terrain to hide and raise their young.
Because of this, Daspletosaurus possess strong and muscular bodies that help them traverse this terrain.
Daspletosaurus are not naturally curious, but younger individuals are more likely to seek out experiences or dinosaurs they have never seen before.
This is especially prevalent among Adolescent Daspletosaurus, who sometimes get themselves into dangerous situations. Their parents, however, always come to their aid.
When not hunting, Daspletosaurus spend time playfighting with other individuals in their pack - a mutually enjoyable action that helps to strengthen their bonds.
However - this playful sparring is kept strictly to same sex playmates, with males and females unwilling to spar with one another.
Daspletosaurus are deadliest when the pack grows silent. Their roars, which often echo through the cliffsides they favor, are replaced by huffs and sniffs of the air in search of prey.
When looking for prey, Daspletosaurus often search for high boulders or cliffsides that are easy for them to climb up on for vantage points.
Males are often much more outright dominant than females, and show off amongst each other often. Females, while quieter than males, still act boldly, and do not back down when threatened.
✦ Downtime Behavior
When the pack is ready to settle down for a brief period of time, Daspletosaurus seek out shaded spots, most often during the hottest part of the day.
Often in caves or beneath overhangs that provide ample shade, Daspletosaurus will nap near any closely bonded members of their pack, sometimes laying their heads on or under another's.
Unwillingly to be caught by surprise, at least one member of the pack remains awake on the lookout for any potential threats. This is often a dominant male, though any member of the pack can take up this position.
Resting Daspletosaurus often communicate with each other in low grumbles and huffs to keep from drawing attention to the pack at this time.
Any cubs the pack may have at the time are corrected if they become too rowdy for their tired mother, who snaps in their direction.
Solitary Daspletosaurus tuck themselves away in underbrush and dark corners to comfortably sleep without disturbance or risk of being spotted.
Bild
✦ Packs
Packs are led by a dominant male or dominant male pair that are responsible for leading the pack during migrations, performing courtship for interested females, and establishing hunting parties.
The rest of the pack consists of females and submissive males. Females are lavished with affection and care by the dominant males, likely as a way to maintain favor with them, especially when it is time for courting.
However - submissive males are not permitted to interact with females by the dominant males, so they must carefully attempt to preen and flirt with females, out of the line of sight of the dominant male/pair. Submissive males may sneakily court females, as detailed under Courtship and Parenthood behavior.
Females prioritize caring for their offspring and strengthening bonds with other females in the group, whilst males remain focused on hunting and protection. If needed, a female will step in to hunt, and females may even opt to take over hunting completely if the males have been hurt or are otherwise exhausted.
If a dominant male or dominant male pair has failed to be impressive, female(s) may opt to disperse from the pack entirely on their own terms, and will ignore the calls or the attempted affections from the now dejected males. 
Continued unappreciated behavior is harshly corrected with a snap to the male’s face - which is quickly respected, with the male turning his back and leaving the female alone immediately.
If Daspletosaurus are approached by an unfamiliar Daspletosaurus wishing to group and the pack does not wish to accept new individuals, they may aggress the individual to display their unwillingness to add the other.
If two packs come across each other and are unwilling or unable to accept new members, they must remain at least 5 body lengths apart. Separate packs do not co-exist close to each other, but will only aggress if approached within 5 body lengths of the pack.
 
✦ Dominant Males
Daspletosaurus males, especially those that have a dominant role within a pack, are confident and haughty. They display their prowess by turning their bodies to the side, attempting to look as large and as intimidating as possible, as well as to show their vibrant colors.
In order to maintain dominance over a pack, males must sufficiently feed the females and their offspring as well as protect them - both from the affections of submissive males, and from other predators.
Females prefer males who dote on them, consistently feed them, and are proven to be able to hunt for and protect the group. Males who often land the final blow on targets are well preferred. 
Enough dedication may result in a female going out of her way to feed a male; which often means a strong, well-developed bond, and a female choosing that male over all other males.
As a result, more often than not, any submissive male in the group - or female if a submissive male is not available - takes on the role of “herder” in hunting parties.
Dominant male pairs are usually strongly bonded brothers or a father and son who work together to satisfy and protect the females in their pack, as well as monitor any submissive males. They build remarkably strong bonds over their lifetimes, and do not hold grudges against each other, regardless of their own success in courting females.
Dominant male pairs are frequently seen napping alongside one another, with one individual sitting upright to monitor the pack and his sleeping ally. Dominant males also take part in playful sparring matches against each other, both to release energy as well as to practice for when it comes time to court females.
Dominant males show very little interest in their own offspring unless solitary. Solitary dominant males in charge of a pack may even “steal” a male cub in order to form a dominant male pair, bringing him away from his mother and siblings to focus his attention on it and build bonds with it. However, if the cub shows resistance and continuously attempts to return to its mother, the male will give up and go back to ignoring all of the cubs.
Dominant males without females will often roam the lands of Riparia and Gondwa calling for them loudly, eager to find a pack of females to provide and perform for.
✦ Packs Without Males
Packs without males may consist of up to 4 Sub/Adult females of any relation, with two slots reserved for potential males.
They will adamantly refuse any submissive males that approach, uninterested by his oftentimes lack of color or confidence.
Females will work together to hunt with incredible coordination, forgoing the showy parts of their hunts in order to hunt precisely and dangerously.
For this time, females will provide for one another; but may be observed hoarding food for themselves and refusing to allow others close.
✦ Submissive Males
Submissive males, while unable to directly court with females, may take part in sneaky courtship, as detailed in Courtship & Parenthood.
They often act as the herders in hunts for the dominant males, and benefit from getting to feed with the other males from the kill.
Submissive males are often low-testosterone, but may still be typical-testosterone-level males who prefer to not lead packs. They benefit from the direct protection of the dominant male pair, but under their supervision, are unable to court, and often directly pushed away from interacting with the females in the pack.
These males additionally recognize that they will have a greater struggle attempting to overthrow existing dominant pairs, and may use this submissive position as a way to sneakily court females, hopefully have male offspring, and disperse from the group with a son as soon as they are able.
✦ Solitary Behavior
Daspletosaurus do well on their own more often than not.
Solitary Daspletosaurus are less haughty than their pack counterparts, and become more strategic about the sound they make and their movements.
While they do not hide, they avoid engagements they do not feel they can win.
Solitary Daspletosaurus target up to Large tier or Adolescents of any tier, even if protected by an adult.
Solitary Daspletosaurus, unless attempting to join or take over a pack, avoid other Daspletosaurus entirely.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Albino Daspletosaurus are considerably weaker and more fragile than their healthier counterparts, and seen as sickly are cannibalized by healthy Daspletosaurus - even if they are in the same pack.
If a cub is found to be Albino, the dominant pair of the group will attempt to cannibalize the pup, to ensure the health of their offspring and litter. Their mothers may attempt to defend the pup by putting herself in the way, but with nudges from the males, she will eventually relent and gather the rest of her healthy pups close to her.
Other mutated individuals face no challenges, other than melanistic males which are seen as female and may face problems courting, and proving themselves as dominant individuals in a pack.
Bild
✦ Dominant Males
Dominant males are the primary protectors of their pack. They will fiercely defend their pack from all incoming threats, including other male Daspletosaurus.
Dominant males chase out any submissive male that shows aggression towards them or the females in his pack.
This often involves the dominant males posturing at other Daspletosaurus, showing off their strength and vitality. If the threat refuses to back down, they will engage in a battle, with the victor(s) chasing out the rival(s).
This behavior is mostly showcased to submissive males attempting to court or take over the pack. Dominant males will always exile submissive males or males that lose a challenge when attempting to court their females or take over their pack.
Dominant males never show aggression to the females in his pack, or risk losing their interest entirely.
If a male loses a challenge, or attacks the females in his pack, the females may decide to chase him out altogether, deciding that he is not a good fit for their pack.
✦ Dominant Males vs. Ungrouped Males
Dominant males will not tolerate ungrouped males in their vicinity, and will attempt to force them into their pack as a submissive male - or chase them out entirely.
Males greet each other by lifting their heads high and showing off their fitness and vibrancy. Ungrouped males who posture back are quickly chased out, as  dominant males do not tolerate other dominant males around their pack.
If the male is submissive or not intending to take over the pack, he will crouch and make soft calls at the dominant males. If they accept his display of submission, they may allow him to join his pack.
This is, however, never guaranteed - and dominant males may still decide to chase out a submissive male if they have existing submissive males in their pack already.
Ungrouped males that want to take over a pack posture and broadcast to show their intention to take over the pack, lifting their heads high and turning to the side to display the bright flashes of colors on their body.
Only the dominant male pair will engage in these challenges. If the dominant male is solitary, only he will partake in these challenges.
Dominant males of the pack always position themselves between the males and their pack, showing their position and separating the males further from their females.
A battle will ensue, with both parties fighting until one forfeits or until a male of either side are killed in battle. Daspletosaurus pack takeovers typically end in bloodshed.
Despite this, if a male forfeits during the battle it is always respected, with the winning party maintaining or taking position as leader of the pack.
If the dominant male is in a pair, his partner will also forfeit the challenge.
If a pack takeover has occurred, females who have bonded with the original males may opt to disperse and follow their preferred males.
Bild
Daspletosaurus aggress any carnivore in 5 body lengths of themselves or their pack; displayed as posturing, roaring, and snarling.
This is not done if the Daspletosaurus are attempting to hunt the carnivore.
Unless solitary, Daspletosaurus fear no other dinosaur. Solitary Daspletosaurus avoid Apex carnivore pairs entirely.
Daspletosaurus tolerate scavengers when they have eaten their fill of a catch. If a scavenger attempts to scavenge while they are still eating they will aggress them away.
Daspletosaurus are less likely to tolerate Quetzalcoatlus scavenging from their kills.
Daspletosaurus are not aggressive towards any herbivore that is not aggressive towards them. However, all individuals have an instinctual need to herd, and may often surround herds even if they do not wish to hunt them. 
They will always stay 5 body lengths away from the herd and will only get closer if they intend to hunt.
✦ Lambeosaurus & Parasaurolophus
These herbivores are the preferred targets of Daspletosaurus and most easily herded. The calls of these species instinctively draw Daspletosaurus to them.
These herds are often trailed at a distance for long periods of time, experienced Daspletosaurus may wait until the herds settle down for the night before launching an attack.
Should a pack spot Lambeosaurus, Daspletosaurus may remain stalking at a distance to remain unheard, especially if near water.
Parasaurolophus intrigues Daspletosaurus and packs often find the challenge of the Apex hadrosaurs to be a fulfilling hunt.
✦ Sarcosuchus & Deinosuchus
Daspletosaurus have an inherent fear of the water due to the potential presence of both Sarcosuchus and Deinosuchus.
Crossing water causes Daspletosaurus stress and they will move from the waters edge as quickly as possible.
Should one of these predators lunge at Daspletosaurus from the water, or ambush them on land, Daspletosaurus will flee from the crocodilian and only defend themselves if unable to flee.
If these species are found by Daspletosaurus on land before they are engaged, Daspletosaurus may opt to hunt these species if they are within their engagement limits and other preferred prey requirements are not met.
Bild
Daspletosaurus always prefer to herd prey when able, focusing on splitting one or two individuals away from the group in order to hunt them as efficiently as possible.
Before anything else in the POI, Daspletosaurus must hunt Lambeosaurus or Parasaurolophus, if they have enough members in their hunting party to do so.
If Lambeosaurus is not available, solitary Daspletosaurus will target offspring of Adolescent and below of any tier.
Dominant males immediately cull and cannibalize albino offspring.
Lambeosaurus is Daspletosaurus’s first choice of prey; these herbivores immediately flee from Daspletosaurus on sight.
With a full pack of three hunters, Daspletosaurus target Parasaurolophus, a large herbivore that often herds with Lambeosaurus. These targets are much more challenging than Lambeosaurus but are much more satisfying to a full pack with offspring, making them prime targets around nesting periods.
Daspletosaurus work together to hunt and herd herbivorous species in groups of up to 3 Adults. These 3 adults are the only ones permitted to land bites during an engagement.
There are typically two hunters that lie in wait for the herder to push prey towards them, and one herder, who spooks prey in the direction intended.
Often, Daspletosaurus use the cloak of night to sneak up to unsuspecting herbivores and scare them in the direction they would like them to go.
Daspletosaurus males are most commonly the individuals who lead these hunts, but it is not mandatory if females are hungry and would like to go out on their own.
Daspletosaurus show extreme signs of intelligence, and learn to adapt their hunts based on previous failed hunts. Experienced Daspletosaurus quickly learn to use caverns, dead ends, and enclosed spaces to their advantage when hunting; inexperienced Daspletosaurus may chase targets into open areas, where they have little chance of ever catching up.
Daspletosaurus will work together to prevent Lambeosaurus from fleeing to waterways. They are well aware of this species’ preferences for water, and know that they will not be able to catch up in a river or lake crossing.
Bild
✦ Courtship
Courtship occurs in packs with males showing off their fitness, strength and vitality. Males will do this by pacing in front of females and lifting their heads in the air.
If there is a bonded male pair in the pack, the two show off in short displays to attract females to them. These males, despite being bonded, do not share mates.
Dominant males may court and nest with up to 4 females at a time.
If a male attempts to poach a female from his bonded male pair the two will engage in a short battle to test their strength and fitness. Losing this battle will make a male look undesirable - even to females he may have previously impressed.
This battle begins with one of the males positioning himself between his female and his rival. The pair pace around each other, making threatening calls and displays - before charging forward to attack one another. This brawl is brutal, with the goal to push the male that is currently positioned in front of the female away from her and take his place.
This brawl continues until one of the pair reaches half health, forcing the loser to back off and leave the pair alone. 
Brawls are fought with quick bites to each other's faces and sides. Males do not intend to do permanent damage to each other, and will not use Heavy Bite or Bone Break each other during this.
This does not develop jealousy between a bonded male pair, and they resume their normal bond with the loser keeping his distance from the winners females.
If a female is receptive to a male's advances, she will allow him to follow her around until she is ready to build a nest. Sometimes females may need a little more convincing than just one brawl to accept a male. 
Female Daspletosaurus are intelligent, and will pick the best male to sire her young. Newer or inexperienced females may pick a male based purely on preference.
If a male is uninterested in courtship, he will still display a brawl with his pair, but will turn away from females to indicate disinterest in courtship.
If a male has ever attacked or been aggressive to a female, she might always reject his advances even if he is an impressive specimen.
These pairbonds are not lasting, and will recycle through many breeding seasons if desired by the pair, but may even crumble if one of the pair loses interest in the other.
Solitary males, in order to court, must display their fitness and skill. This often results in the male needing to secure a meal for the female before she will accept his advances.
✦ Submissive Male Sneaky Courtship
While submissive males are not permitted to court in front of the dominant male, sometimes these males take the opportunity to impress a female after she has placed her nest - just before she lays her eggs.
After watching the dominant males move from the nesting site, the submissive male sneaks in, often with an offering of food, and approaches a female.
Gifting her the food, he displays by lifting his head, shaking, and pacing before her.
Some females, typically inexperienced, will accept the male courting her with shakes and soft rumbles. 
This must be done before the nesting post is made.
Submissive males will only risk courting 1 female who has already been courted by a dominant male.
If rejecting him, the female who is being attempted may still take the food, and then aggress or ignore the submissive male.
If he is aggressed, he will flee from the nesting site before he is caught by the dominant male(s).
If he is caught in the courting process, the dominant male(s) attack the submissive male until he is outside 5 body lengths of the nesting area, not allowing him anywhere near the nesting site - and is pushed to the outskirts of the area the pack roam.
The dominant male(s) may take the submissive male down to death scars, but the submissive male is never killed intentionally. The submissive male flees as quickly as possible and does not aggress back other than tail attacks.
Dominant males will only aggress the submissive male if he is caught near the nests. Otherwise, they do not attack or aggress the male.
✦ Nesting
Nesting begins with females searching for a well-hidden location to build a nest. Her chosen male will follow her to protect her from threats and rival males that may attempt to court her.
Once her nest is placed, the male will move away, beginning to patrol the area around the nesting site and find food - or court more females - while she constructs her nest.
Females nest in very dense, protected foliage, and cover their nest in large bushes and leaves to craft a thicket of protection for their young.
Mothers are not overly affectionate to their young, and after laying her eggs the female will move away from her nest to protect the area around it from predators.
Fathers protect a wider area around all of the females they are nesting with. If they have a bonded male pair, both assist each other.
Submissive males retreat after courting, and do not patrol around the nest in the same way a dominant male does.
Females courted by both males often nest very close together, with their nests well constructed and hidden from potential threats.
✦ Parenthood
Mothers and females in a pack are the primary caregivers of offspring and form loose bonds to help raise young. Females are typically more affectionate and understanding than their male counterparts.
Mothers do not stay near their nest, and in fact may join hunting parties even if their offspring are newly hatched. This is an effort to draw predators' attention away from their offspring and clear the area of any lingering scents.
Fathers do not partake in caring for offspring. Instead, they will provide food for the females of his pack and protect the area around the nest.
Mothers will deliver chunks of food for their cubs and often spend only a brief amount of time checking on the hatchlings before leaving the nest.
Once cubs are Juvenile, mothers become more involved, coaxing them from the confines of the nest to explore the immediate area.
Any critters nearby may be herded by the mother towards her offspring who are encouraged to hunt the - often harmless - creature.
Unwilling to remain in one spot for long, the pack resume their nomadic lifestyle once all the cubs have reached juvenile.
During the pack's travels, all females within the pack help rear cubs, delivering guidance and corrections.
Males - while remaining mostly aloof to the cubs - do not hesitate to step in to protect them if they are attacked.
If a cub is recognized as Albino by the dominant males in the group, the males rush to separate it from the rest of the cubs with fierce snarls. Mothers may attempt to get between the cub and the males, standing strong and snapping at the faces of the males' in attempt to deter them.
If they continue, or nuzzle her in order to get her to back down, she eventually reluctantly backs off, returning to her other cubs and shooing them away from the sight of the albino cub.
After this, the males cannibalize the cub.
Males only take specific interest in their cubs if they do not already have a dominant male pair, and will attempt to bond with a male cub. If the cub takes no interest or flees to its mother, the male will not pursue.
Cubs who attempt to interact with males are ignored, often shown by the male looking up and away from the cub; making themselves as uninteresting as possible.
Adolescent cubs are permitted closer to the adult males to observe hunts and to chase small tiers and below creatures that cross their path. Mothers will still keep on eye on their cubs at this age, but may be more willing to let them explore further.
Cubs who chase or explore too far are called or herded back, redirecting the cub back to the safety of the pack.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Once cubs reach Sub-Adult, they usually disperse in search of their own pack.
However - some are permitted to remain with their parents, should the pack have the space.
Fathers already with a dominant pair will ignore their sons directly, or attempt to encourage them to become a submissive male.
Males who were raised together often form bonded pairs and set off together once maturing. Similarly, females who were raised together may disperse in groups of up to four in order to find their own doting males.
Submissive males who have fathered sneaky clutches may also approach his young-adult male children, claim them as a pair, and quickly disperse with the pack to avoid detection.
✦ Adoption
Daspletosaurus ignore unattended and unrelated offspring. They do not adopt.
Orphans will be aggressed away if they linger for too long.
Bild
Daspletosaurus males, as they age, become less effective in their performances for females. They begin to move more slowly, and often start to dull in color. They end up unable to keep up with the needs of the females of their pack, which often means females dispersing on their own terms to find more suitable males.
Due to this, more often than not, elderly males have only their bonded male to rely on, both when it comes to hunting and protection - or they become a submissive male.
Females, on the other hand, are continued to be provided for even as they age and begin to lay less eggs. They continue to assist other females in their pack with their cubs even if they have none of their own, and males continue to attempt to feed them and take care of them in the same fashion as if they could properly court her.
Daspletosaurus who are older in seasons may be observed taking longer naps more often, moving more slowly, and not being as willing to stray from preferred areas as their younger counterparts.
✦ Death
When it comes time before a Daspletosaurus to pass, they often return to the caves where they were born, curling up in the place where their nest was placed. No attempt to rouse them is successful, with a pack often moving on without the individual unless strongly bonded or related.
Dominant male pairs will stay together through the end of their lives.
Bild
If distant calls from preferred prey are heard by Daspletosaurus but the prey is not in the POI, Daspletosaurus is not required to move to the next POI in order to hunt that prey.
Packs can have any number of submissive males, though typically only one or two are tolerated at a time.
Daspletosaurus will aggress any carnivore in 5 body lengths of themselves or their pack. This is not a challenge for territory, but may be considered a challenge for personal space.
Bild
Dominant males exiling or correcting a submissive male will never kill the male intentionally. They may only bring him to deathscars.
RULE EXEMPTIONS
Adolescent Daspletosaurus are allowed to remain within 10 bodylengths of an engagement to observe how the pack hunts.3.13
Daspletosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering adverse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4.
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.05.2026 02:52
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Daspletosaurus are Large Cathemeral Terrestrial Carnivores.
Daspletosaurus can group up to 6 Sub/Adults and Unlimited Offspring. Daspletosaurus do not adopt.
Daspletosaurus are aggressive.
Daspletosaurus can have up to 3 in an engagement.
Solitary Daspletosaurus may hunt up to Large tier. 2+ Daspletosaurus may hunt up to Apex tier. Daspletosaurus may not scavenge. Daspletosaurus may hunt any unattended or attended offspring at any time.
Solitary Daspletosaurus avoid Apex carnivore pairs.
Daspletosaurus packs are led by strongly bonded dominant male pairs, or a solo dominant male. These males lead the pack in hunting, migrating, courtship, and are the caretakers of all the females in the pack.
Some dominant male pairs may permit submissive males to join the pack; these submissive males may attempt sneaky courtship when the pack is nesting.
Females are the primary caretakers of offspring, and defend them fiercely from all attempts of infanticide, even if the cub is albino. Females are stubborn, and while at times be gentle with males they have established relationships with, have high expectations of the dominant males they follow.
In courtship, dominant males have friendly brawls against one another. A male may then court up to four females at the female’s preferences.
Daspletosaurus packs are often loud, but may end up being dangerously quiet when in pursuit of prey. They primarily travel through forests and cliffsides in search of their next meal.
 
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes):  20-40-50-70 = 180 total
Combat Weight: 3500
Adjusted Stats:
⁨⁨
- Feral Instincts Piercing Damage Multiplier reduced
- Tyrant Roar Damage Multiplier buff reduced
- small sprint cost stamina reduction
⁩⁩ 
Quick Links
Top
Growing up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?