Iguanodon
    "Iggy","Iggie"
Iguanodons are hot-headed and aggressive herbivores. They are highly social and roam in herds, forming tight bonds with certain individuals within their groupings. These large herbivores are known for their stubborn dispositions and picky personalities, often turning their ire on those not within their herd.
Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Kittyful
Photo: Xilya
Profile inspired by African Buffalo, the Path of Titans of Titans model and gameplay as Iguanodon, American Bison, Donkeys


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond



2_iggy-2.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.08.2025 17:00
Overview
Bild
Large Diurnal Terrestrial Herbivore
Iguanodon form harem bonds.
Iguandon are nomadic but become temporarily territorial over food and water resources.
Iguanodon have a tolerant nature, but are aggressive when defending food and water resources.
Iguanodon may group with: Bonapartenykus, Camptosaurus, Citipati, Lambeosaurus, Parasaurolophus, and Struthiomimus.
They may not defend these species, even when grouped with them.
Iguanodon usually tolerate albino and melanistic individuals, but certain individuals may not.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Species include:
Albino, Melanistic, DR Chimera Piebald, DR Siamese.
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Unlimited Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a herd.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Predator Reaction: Headstrong
✦ Defending from Predators
Up to 3 Sub/Adult Individuals can step forward and defend their herd from being hunted.
This is almost always a group of 3 bulls, but cows are happy to act as defenders if not enough bulls are available.
The 3 defenders can chase down and attack predators hunting them so long as the defenders do not leave line of sight of the herd.
They can also ignore forfeits by predators that engaged with them and can chase them down to kill them, so long as the attackers do not leave line of sight of the herd.
The rest of the herd bunches together tightly, forming a thick group to slowly back away from the engagement. They remain together, and do not chase down the predators nor follow the defenders, but can land a hit if the predator approaches them.
A mother defending her young is excluded from the engagement limits. See more under Predator Reaction.
✦ Defending Resources from other Herbivores
All Iguanodon grouped together can guard food and water resources from other herbivores. See more under Cross-Species Interaction.
✦ Courtship Challenges
Bull fights are fought one on one. See more under Courtship & Parenthood.
✦ Flee Response
Solitary Iguanodon flee from 3+ Large carnivores or 1+ Apex carnivores.
Solitary Iguanodon of Adolescent or below will flee from 1+ Large or higher tier carnivores.
Otherwise, Iguanodon do not flee when grouped with their own kind, unless success appears unlikely. This judgement may vary across individuals.

Preferred Diet
Berries, Flowers, Nuts and Roots.
Flowers and Roots are their favourites.
Berries are prioritised for calves. Young Iguanodon are only able to digest berries and do not expand their diets until they grow.
 
Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 3 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 4 hour.
Iguanodon nest anywhere in their preferred POIs.
Iguanodon may form same-sex pairs, but do not nest. They may adopt orphaned Iguanodon.

Physical Dimorphism
Iguanodon have color dimorphism.
This profile does have high and low T individuals. Individuals differing from the typical dimorphism will not act outside of their gender's temperament.
♀️ Females are known as cows and have a more desaturated coloration.
♂️ Males, known as bulls, have at least one area on their body that contains a bright flash of color, contrasting with darker areas of their skin.
Physical dimorphism for Iguanodon is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Iguanodon offspring, known as calves, are born dazed and confused, tumbling into the world and greeted soothingly by their mother's soft, encouraging calls. Taking a moment to steady themselves, they soon return her affectionate calls, and work quickly to stagger to their feet.
Although wobbly at first, Iguanodon calves quickly adapt to their newfound mobility and stay as close as possible to their mother and siblings. Some herds stop and rest during nesting, but others quickly resume their nomadic lifestyle, so calves must be capable of following along with the adults if the need arises.
Iguanodon calves prioritise one thing above all others in their lives - their mother. Calves follow behind their mother at all times, acting as a form of shadow, and remain careful not to stray too far.
Iguanodon offspring that find themselves too far from the comfort of their mother will call out in alarm, and desperately search until they can find her again.
Once they reach juvenile and the herd approaches a rest stop, calves begin to play with one another. Young chase after each other, vocalise, show affection and engage in varying different games. 
Overly boisterous calves may get scolded by another member of the herd if their play is deemed to be too rough - or perhaps even annoying. Calves that are rebuked always rush sheepishly back to their mother.
Calves also spend a lot of time gathering gifts for their mother, further cementing the bond between mother and calf. Different foods and objects get presented to her with calves eagerly awaiting their mother's approval - and sadness if greeted with her disapproval.
Calves seem to have limitless energy at juvenile stage, and can become restless when the herd settles down to sleep due to their cathemeral body clocks. Other members of the herd - especially night patrolling bulls - encourage calves to calm down and rest beside their mothers and siblings - but some calves might require a firmer suggestion if they stubbornly refuse sleep.
Calves usually show affection and enjoy socializing with any member of the herd that will accept them. Juvenile is a prime age for fathers to start bonding with their offspring, and calves happily accept and greet their fathers if they pay them attention.
If the herd is in a mixed species grouping, Iguanodon calves happily investigate other species with curiosity. Play is especially initiated with Parasaurolophus and Lambeosaurus young due to their similar sizes.
At adolescent, calves begin developing more independence from their mothers, but still seek her affection and comfort out at all times. During migrations, adolescents continue walking beside their mothers, but young bulls in particular pay special attention to the adult bulls in the herd - especially their father - and are keen to copy any calls and behaviors they display. Cow calves, meanwhile, prefer to remain with their mothers, and mimic her behaviors.
Bull calves of both juvenile and adolescent age may act out bull fights if they witness them. This usually happens directly after watching a bullfight between two adults, but ends much quicker, with no more than 2 stabs each that land on their opponent. Both calves rush back to their mothers afterwards to soothe their wounds.
Upon reaching Sub-Adult, calves are considered fully fledged members of the herd. Bulls, eager to prove themselves, are quick to rush forward as defenders of the herd.
Both sexes typically stay with the herd for their whole lives, forging strong bonds and friendships.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphans struggle without a mother figure in their lives and spend the majority of their youth searching for a replacement, and the comfort of a herd.
If lucky enough to happen upon a herd of Iguanodon - or even a solitary individual - most orphans can find refuge with them. Though bulls will not act as a father to the orphan, they will happily welcome them into their group and offer them protection. Cows, meanwhile, might show a more affectionate attitude, which the orphan gratefully accepts.
Orphans approach the herd, calling out affectionately. Some orphans will gravitate towards a particular individual they find comforting - but ultimately it is the choice of the adults that will take an orphan under their wing and decide to adopt it.
Failing to find a herd of Iguanodon does not necessarily mean a lack of a mother figure for an orphan. Iguanodon will seek out herds of Lambeosaurus or Parasaurolophus for adoption - though this is always a second choice. Both hadrosaurs readily welcome orphaned Iguanodon into their herds and this can prove beneficial for the calf - especially when awarded attention and nurturing care, which can be provided by both species.
Though they are not the ideal substitute for an adoptive Iguanodon mother, the orphan will remain with the herd for as long as possible - only breaking away to join other Iguanodon once they reach adulthood, or if they encounter others of their species early on, having not yet established strong bonds with their other adoptive species.
The longer an Iguanodon calf remains with these species, the more traits and habits they tend to pick up. This can even extend to Iguanodon orphans attempting to copy courting behaviors exhibited by the other species once they reach sub-adult, and taking longer to integrate fully when finally meeting others of their own kind.
In some extreme cases, some orphans may spend the rest of their lives preferring the company of their adopted species.
Barsboldia and Camptosaurus can also provide comfort to a young orphan, but the more nocturnal stirrings of Barsboldia and the smaller, speedier build of Camptosaurus can make it very difficult for an Iguanodon calf to relate to them. They may stay by these potential "parents" for some time, but are quick to leave them in favor of better opportunities - such as Lambeosaurus, Parasaurolophus, or their fellow Iguanodon.
Bild
As a nomadic, migratory species, Iguanodon are perfectly adapted to travel great distances in search of food and water resources. From as early as hatchling, young Iguanodon are equipped for the pressure of hard migrations.
Iguanodon are a fully terrestrial species, but enjoy spending time in water - especially during the harsh sun in the dry season. They can be seen swimming and rolling in lakes and ponds, and especially relish coastal regions and splashing in the sea.
This behavior extends even to certain groups of Iguanodon that sometimes migrate down to Red Island. Though they are not the best swimmers, Iguanodon are fully able to swim that distance, and experienced herds may choose to do so in order to hatch and raise young in the seclusion of the island.
Iguanodon are particularly fond of mud baths, and take great pleasure in rolling and laying in mud to coat their skins. In the rainy season this is especially important to serve as protection against the biting insects that plague Iguanodon in the wetter months.
Iguanodon shake their heads as a means of reassurance, and also as a sign of affection. When interacting with something new - and perhaps unsettling - they often take to shaking their heads after the experience, perhaps to release any stress in their bodies.
When resting, bulls take turns on surveillance duty, inspecting the area around the sleeping herd, and keeping a watchful eye for any predators that might sneak up under the cloak of darkness. In busy environments, the bull stands on his hind legs and walks around the herd, swapping with another bull mid way through the night so he can get some rest. Calmer environments will see bulls walking slowly in a large circle around the herd, or if all is quiet, he will simple sit near the edge of the herd and keep guard.
When migrating, Iguanodon are fairly loud, often heard before they are seen. It only takes one member to broadcast loudly before the rest of the herd follows suit.
Iguanodon rise to a bipedal stance whenever something alarms them. This is a defensive gesture, but also serves to help the Iguanodon see over a greater distance.
However, Iguanodon are not easily shaken. Small carnivores in low numbers are generally ignored, not representing much of a threat to these much larger herbivores.
Bild
✦ Herds
Iguanodon are highly social creatures, and seem to fare far better when in a herd of large numbers.
While there is no set hierarchy in Iguanodon herds, bulls prefer to lead the rest of the herd from the front, bellowing out loud calls to call the herd to follow.
Bulls are the more gregarious of the two sexes, happily greeting and welcoming strangers into the herd but normally don’t form strong bonds with individuals. They tend to become "everybody's friend" with their easygoing demeanour, and take great delight in games of play with both each other and calves. Bulls spread their attention across the entirety of the herd, rather than becoming close to a select few friends.
They enjoy tests of endurance - bulls happily engage in games of tag, where the bull being chased will kick back at his opponent. Rarely do these playfights go very far, and both bulls will shake at each other afterwards to conclude the session.
There is little rivalry between bulls, except during courtship - yet even this is short-lived, and quickly forgotten about afterwards.
In contrast, cows are more selective with their social interactions. They tend to be very loving towards those they have formed bonds with, but stand-offish towards individuals they do not know. This can mean they take some time "inspecting" a newcomer to the herd before they accept them - though they are much more accommodating to strange calves than they are to adults.
They do, however, make close friendships with some individuals. These friendships are deep and long lasting, with plenty of gift giving between friends, and opting to walk together or sleep beside one another at rest stops.
✦ Solitary Behavior
Solitary Iguanodon are much quieter, and spend most of their lives searching for others of their kind to group with, or other similar species.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Iguanodon usually tolerate albino and melanistic individuals, but some personalities may not tolerate them at all. Whilst they won't expel them from the herd, they may show shunning behaviors towards them, such as moving away when they approach, and bullying them off of food bushes.
Bild
Iguanodon are relatively passive and tolerant with others of their species, though individual personalities do vary and some - particularly cows - can be somewhat cantankerous.
However, this never escalates beyond a kick or a smack here or there.
Bild
✦ Food/Water Aggression with Other Species
Iguanodon are stubborn and possessive of food and water resources, as well as their personal space. They do not tolerate any species invading this space except for the preferred species that they herd with.
Any herbivore species that they do not group with - with the exception of Small and Tiny tier dinosaurs - will provoke Iguanodon to guard resources.
Most small and tiny herbivores are ignored, with the exception of Pachycephalosaurus.
Only Iguanodon herds with 3 or more sub/adult members engage in this behavior.
Iguanodon will seek to push in front of their temporarily claimed bushes and block access to water by pacing along the water's edge if they spot other species nearby, offering low, rumbling bellows to threaten. Other species, especially ceratopsians and stegosaurids, are immediately shunned and prevented from coming close or sharing the same water and food.
If the other group outnumbers the Iguanodon defending their resources, the herd will instead move on, uttering out irritated grumbles as they move to new resources.
Sauropods, while treated with disdain, are too large and formidable to fight with. Instead of aggressing, Iguanodon shamefully move aside.
The only exception to this is Amargasaurus.
If the other species refuses to back down and continues to approach the resource, all members of the herd may engage, but they do not chase down the opponent - instead remaining stubbornly in place, refusing to move away, and landing hits each time the opponents are within striking distance.
Calves hide behind their mothers during challenges such as these. They do not join in with the engagement, but call out in support from behind.
If a member of the herd reaches severely low health (deathscars) during one of these resource battles, the rest of the herd will forfeit the challenge, and regretfully move on to a new location with more resources.
When away from food and water, most other species are greeted with indifference.
✦ Cross-Species Herd Members
Parasaurolophus and Lambeosaurus are an Iguanodon's favorite species to group with, and they are always accepted into the herd when encountered. They show affection to these individuals and seem to enjoy their company - but other Iguanodon are always put first.
Iguanodon prioritize themselves and their own species over others. Though they have a natural tolerance - and even enjoyment in some cases - for the species that they herd with, Iguanodon will push themselves and their young to the front of food resources, often cutting across the Parasaurolophus or Lambeosaurus they herd with to ensure they get to eat first.
They never necessarily guard resources from these two species, but selfishly try to ensure they are the first ones to get access to them.
Iguanodon do not defend any of the species they group with. If those species are attacked, Iguanodon will move away from the engagement, preferring not to get involved.
 
Bild
Iguanodon are stubborn, and rarely back down from a fight.
Solitary Iguanodon opt to flee rather than fight when in the presence of 3+ Large carnivores or 1+ Apex carnivores.
Solitary Iguanodon of Adolescent or below flee from 1+ Large or higher tier carnivores.
Otherwise, Iguanodon do not flee when grouped with their own kind, unless success appears unlikely. This judgement may vary across individuals.
When fleeing, all Iguanodon may still defend themselves, but must focus on escape.
When a predator is spotted, all Iguanodon begin to broadcast loudly, alerting the rest of the herd to the potential threat. It is at this time that the 3 potential defenders will form, rushing to the front of the group and joining the chorus with angry growls. Standing to their full height, these defenders begin their threatening pacing, bellowing loudly and stabbing at the air in an intimidating display.
Iguanodon are intimidated by 5+ Small, or 2+ Medium carnivores, but if they experience these carnivores in lower numbers they ignore their presence.
Bulls (or cows, if there are not enough bulls) act as the primary defenders, with up to 3 Sub/Adults pacing in a defensive position at the front of the herd. 
All other members bunch together tightly behind these bulls and retreat slowly from the fight, keeping their bodies close to minimise exposing each other to the predators.
The 3 defenders remain in a bipedal stance, pacing back and forth in front of the herd and growling at the predators, as well as stabbing at the air in an attempt to warn them off.
The defenders use a combination of front and rear attacks once the engagement begins, but most favour a bipedal stance to slam their powerful arms against threats, and pierce through hides with their thumb spikes. Kicks and tail attacks are more commonly used as a defensive gesture when being pursued, but are still used offensively if the predator attacks from behind.
These defenders can chase and charge at the attackers, so long as the attackers do not leave line of sight of the herd.
Iguanodons in groups of 3 or fewer individuals do not chase and charge at the attackers - as there is no herd to defend.
If the attackers forfeit or reach deathscars, defenders can chase down and continue attacking until the attackers leave line of sight of the herd.
When there is ample warning of a predator approaching, mothers prioritise stashing their offspring in nearby bushes and undergrowth; concealing them and keeping them out of harm's way, before joining the rest of the herd in bunching together defensively.
If a predator discovers the location of the stashed young, they call out in alarm and flee to her in an attempt to join the rest of the defensive group.
If the predator is attempting to attack a calf within one body length of the mother, she can step forward to defend them, but will not pursue or chase down the predators once her calf has moved to the safety of the group.
 
Bild
✦ Courtship
Iguanodon courtship is initiated by bulls, who excitedly flush with testosterone at a rest stop in between migrations. This rush of testosterone prompts bulls to act in a more brutish manner with each other - shoving against one another, body blocking and bellowing. This does not cause any damage or injury, and all bulls seem to enjoy the almost playful roughhousing.
If cows are receptive to potential advances, they approach a bull but turn away at the last minute. Sometimes approaching slowly and carefully, before turning heel and sprinting a short distance away. The cows do this to tease the bulls, pretending to be intrigued by him, but then moving away to feign disinterest. This is employed as a form of flirting, encouraging bulls to try harder to win their approval. 
Should a cow not be interested in courtship, she may ignore the bulls completely and stay closer to the edge of the herd. Younger cows who are not interested will sometimes intervene with roughhousing bulls, scolding them with aggressive calls and harsh staredowns if they are being approached by them.
Immediately feeling frustration at a sudden lack of attention from cows, bulls then push further to try and impress them - leading the hopeful bulls to rush ahead of allegedly unimpressed cows, and broadcasting to show their willingness to engage in bullfights.
Bulls wishing to court will react to these broadcasting calls with excitement, approaching the bull calling and issuing their own broadcasting challenge call to indicate their desire to bullfight.
Once a bull makes these intentions known, the rest of the herd will begin to gather around, excited to witness a potential bullfight. Cows settle down in loose groupings, keeping their eyes on the broadcasting bull and any potential challengers that may approach.
The two bulls raise onto their hind legs and begin walking slowly, growling at each other.
Stabbing at the air is common in bulls that try their best to intimidate their opponent into forfeiting before a fight breaks out. They do not break eye contact with each other, and do not turn their backs.
Younger or more submissive bulls may take this opportunity to back down, losing their bravado when faced with the reality of a fierce fight. Forfeiting is as simple as lowering themselves back to all fours, and breaking eye-contact, walking away from the scene.
If it is clear neither bull will back down, they finally move forward and stab at each other viciously with their thumb spikes. This is a brutal and short battle, where both bulls alternate between fierce stabbing and blocking to defend themselves from incoming attacks - but every bullfight ends as soon as one opponent reaches half health. 
The loser turns and retreats, moving to sit on the outskirts of the herd to recover and nurse his wounds.
The winner, meanwhile, stays where he is and lets out a victorious broadcast.
Cows that are impressed by the victor move forward and pepper him with affectionate calls and head shakes, with bulls shaking their head and returning the affection in kind. Once all individuals accept, the bull and his cows look to find a suitable location to nest together, with all cows preferring to nest close by to one another.
Some cows may take pity on the loser, and approach him in much the same way. Losing a bullfight does not necessarily mean a bull loses out on courtship, and some cows are happy to accept being courted by a loser bull. Loser bulls, however, can only nest with one cow at a time.
Once one bullfight has started, others often follow in quick succession, with Iguanodon preferring to nest at similar times to one another.
Should there be no other bulls present for bullfighting, bulls can gain the favour of a cow in other ways. These bulls may bring the cows of his choice a variety of gifts - from fresh berries, to flowers, to roots and nuts. Food is a sure way to impress a female without engaging in bullfights, and can sometimes be employed by more submissive or elder bulls who struggle to best their opponents in combat.
Older cows that have had clutches before sometimes prefer this courtship style. Younger cows, however, tend to enjoy the excitement of witnessing a bullfight.
Cows have strong memories and sometimes hold grudges. If a bull failed to impress her a previous season, or upset her in any way, she may reject his advances. 
On the other hand, bulls that have shown to be excellent providers and fathers may get prioritized by that same cow next breeding season.
Sometimes, a bull Iguanodon may decide to reject advances from a cow. This is unusual but not uncommon. This rejection is not aggressive, and consists of the bull simply turning away each time the cow approaches him, gently making it clear that he has no interest.
Cows, while confused at first, accept this and move on to another bull quickly.
✦ Same Sex Pairing
Iguanodon can form close bonds with individuals of the same sex. These bonds are loosely formed with some individuals preferring the companionship of another, rather than engaging in nesting.
Individual preference of the length of these bonds depend on many factors and individual personalities, with some preferring to remain as a pair and raise orphans side by side.
Same sex pairings like these can be temporary relationships or last for a long time - with some even being permanent.
✦ Nesting
Once pairings are secured and nests are dug, bulls promptly redirect their attention to other cows in the group, happily engaging in further bullfights and gift giving in the means to court with as many females as possible.
After all courtship is over, bulls return back to the females they courted successfully, taking time to go between each female and show her affection.
Bulls that only nest with one female sometimes go further - bringing the cow a gift of food while she incubates their eggs.
Such behavior is thought to be beneficial for bulls, as spending time and building bonds with cows can help encourage her to court him again next breeding season.
 
✦ Parenthood
Once babies - known as calves - hatch out of their eggs, they take a moment to adjust their eyes before scrambling to their feet. Mothers greet their calves warmly, offering loving brays and affectionate head shakes as they encourage them into standing.
Cows usually develop a strong bond with their calves, but the strength of the bond differs between females. Some mothers - especially first time mothers - can be overly protective, and angrily call out to other herd members if she feels they have come too close to her precious infant. These cows usually relax over time and through subsequent clutches.
Some cows treat motherhood as nothing more than an inconvenience, which can result in calves being left behind if they fail to keep up. They will, however, always defend their calf if attacked within one body length of her.
Bulls prioritize caring for the cows they courted, before paying any attention to offspring. But they do endeavour to prove themselves as good, protective fathers as well. Calves are greeted with affection by their fathers, and may be encouraged to play with him in games of chase once they get a little bigger.
Many cows will find fatherly behavior to be an attractive quality in a bull, and those shown to be protective and sociable with their calves are considered a higher quality partner for the next season of courtship.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Both cows and bulls are permitted to stay in their parents herd their whole life to further strengthen their bonds.
✦ Adoption
Orphans, meanwhile, are readily accepted into the herd. Cows that are experienced mothers, whether they currently have their own calves or not, are the first ones to claim an orphaned calf for adoption - but even bulls will provide protection and affection to these lonely calves.
Bild
After a life spent migrating from a young age, reaching an elder stage often brings on the onset of arthritis. This condition gradually limits their mobility and activity levels due to the pain and discomfort they feel in their joints. Elders are often the slowest in the group, only very rarely sprinting, and choosing to take safer paths even if they take longer to travel.
As they age, their ability to keep up with the demands of migration diminishes. They struggle to maintain a good pace to keep up with their younger companions, or get to food first. Elder Iguanodon may end up breaking off into smaller herds that move at a slower pace, and take on more of a sedentary lifestyle, taking longer and longer rest periods between travelling.
Should the herd migrate to Red Island, elders will not follow, and instead stay near the coast, hoping for their herd to return later.
Predators may have more success hunting a herd that has elderly members. These older individuals sometimes lose their hearing, and may have slower or delayed reactions when the herd calls out a threat. Elders are unfortunately easy targets, especially if they are particularly old and cannot sprint as much or as far.
Elder Iguanodon enjoy spending time near coastal regions; bathing in shallow water and enjoying the soothing feeling of the water lapping at their weary bodies. They may be reluctant to move on if the herd starts to leave the coastline, and younger herd members may have to spend some time coaxing the elder away from the relaxing beaches.
With the majority of their life behind them, an elder Iguanadon’s coloration fades after so much time exposed to the weather. Their scales take on a weathered look; colors fade and patterns become less distinct. Even the brightest of bulls will notice their striking colors reducing to a shadow of what they once were.
When the loss of an elder is felt, those that were closest to them can be observed spending periods of time mourning and staying close to their final resting place, before they move on.
✦ Death
If they feel the end of their life is approaching, elderly Iguanodon will start to head towards a favored place to spend their last moments. Beloved companions, friends, partners and relatives will accompany them on their final journey. Spending as much time as possible rubbing their body against their friend, and shaking their heads in reassurance. At rest stops, the elder Iguanadon’s companions will search for flowers and morsels of food to bring them, providing comfort and friendship right to the end.
Bild
Iguanodon can be seen swimming and rolling in lakes and ponds, and especially relish coastal regions and splashing in the sea.
At night, bulls take it in turns (1-2 at a time) to slowly patrol around a sleeping herd. Bulls don't patrol if they are the only Iguanodon in a mixed species herd.
Defenders may chase down and continue attacking predators that hunt the herd after they forfeit - but may not leave line of sight of the herd to do so.
Iguanodon usually tolerate albino and melanistic individuals, but some personalities may not tolerate them at all.
Iguanodon are stubborn and possessive of food and water resources, as well as their personal space.
Bild
Iguanodon has no profile specific rules.
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.08.2025 18:11
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 22:43
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Iguanodon are Large Diurnal Terrestrial Herbivores.
Iguanodon can group with unlimited individuals, offspring and adoptees. Males are called bulls, females are called cows, and offspring are called calves.
Iguanodon have a tolerant nature.
Iguanodon can have up to 3 in an engagement. These are primarily bulls, but cows can act as defenders if not enough bulls are available. The rest of the group bunches tightly together for defence, but can land a hit if the predator directly attacks them.
Additionally, a calf that is attacked within one body length of the mother may have the mother rush to defend it, in excess of the engagement limit.
Iguanodon do not flee from carnivores unless solitary. When solitary, they flee from 3+ Large or 1+ Apex carnivores. If solitary and adolescent or younger, they will flee from 1+ Large carnivore or higher.
Iguanodon live in huge groups called herds that have no overall hierarchy. Bulls lead the herd from the front, with cows and calves following behind.
Iguanodon are a social species, readily welcoming newcomers and strangers into the group.
Iguanodon group with various similar species and happily socialize with them. They are friendly towards these species, but still push to the front to try and make sure they get access to food and water resources first.
When encountering other herbivorous species that they do not herd with, they attempt to control food and water, and can engage in resource challenges. This is especially true against ceratopsians.
Iguanodon bulls engage in consensual bullfights for mating rights, but even the losers can have pity taken on them by a cow looking to nest. Some bulls opt out of bullfights and prefer to win cows over with gift-giving.
Profile in Under 60 Seconds - Video Series
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tqGuSZeLfxA
YouTube
Dynasty Realism
Dynasty Realism: Profiles in Under 60 Seconds - Iguanodon
Bild
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes):   20-40-50-70 = 180 total
Combat Weight: 4200
Adjusted Stats:
⁨⁨
- Combat weight increased to 4200 from 4000
- Health increased to 800 from 750
- Swim cost per second decreased
- Fast swim cost per second decreased
⁩⁩ 
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Predator Reaction
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?