Halszkaraptor
Halszkaraptor is a unique species of small, bird-like dinosaurs that lived during the Late Cretaceous period. Discovered in Mongolia, this dromaeosauridae had a distinctive combination of traits, including a long neck, webbed limbs, and a streamlined body, suggesting it was semi-aquatic. Its adaptations point to a lifestyle similar to modern water birds, making it one of the most unusual dinosaur discoveries. Halszkaraptor's features provide valuable insight into the diverse evolutionary paths taken by dinosaurs. It was about the size of the common Mallard Duck!

Author: Zesty Filip
Photo: YeahokayitsEDEN
Profile inspired by mallard ducks, loons, magpies and coots.


Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 12.07.2025 18:02
Overview
Bild
Details
Tiny Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Herbivore
Halszkaraptor form promiscuous pairbonds.
Halszkaraptor are sedentary.
Halszkaraptor have a passive nature.
Halszkaraptor may group with: Deinocheirus and Lurdusaurus. 
Halszkaraptor may not defend these species, even when grouped with them.
Halszkaraptor tolerate albino and melanistic individuals.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Unlimited Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees
This group is known as a raft.

Engagement Limits (Defence)
Predator Reaction: ⁨Flighty⁩
Unlimited Halskaraptor may participate in an engagement, but this species will flee from almost all predators.
When hunted, Halszkaraptor flee from any carnivores that are Small tier or higher.
Deinonychus prompt a high fear response in Halszkaraptor, being one of the few carnivores speedy and agile enough to hunt them.
Halszkaraptor always stand their ground against Compsognathus and Rhamphorhynchus.
One exception is when Small tier carnivores threaten a nesting site with offspring. In these cases, members of the raft will team up in unlimited numbers to mob the predator and defend their nests and young.

Preferred Diet
Halszkaraptor feed by skimming through the water, searching for lakeweed, small fish, and roots near to water as their main food sources.
They have a special fondness for fruit. The high sugar content fuels their quick and agile movements. Their love for fruit sometimes sparks conflicts with Dryosaurus, which fiercely guards their berry bushes.
While they enjoy a varied diet, female Halszkaraptor will sometimes switch to exclusively eating fish to prepare for their egg laying season.
Halszkaraptor shun others of their species that are seen consuming meat or bones.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 8 🥚﻿ per 1 hour.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 3 🥚﻿ per 1 hour.
Halszkaraptor  nest in dense foliage by rivers and ponds in their preferred POIs. Halszkaraptor prefer to choose small islands amid rivers or ponds to nest on. Their nests are constructed out of soft and bushy materials that are easy to navigate through and hide within, should a predator appear.

Physical Dimorphism
♀️ Females are known as hens. They are generally larger, with a thicker set of feathers. Their superb plumage supports their ability to incubate eggs, even during harsh conditions.  Hens display a wide range of patterns, but visually are duller in color than drakes, with the occasional flash of bright color on their underside.
Suitable subspecies include: Anserilliei, Escuilliei & Cygnilliei
♂️ Males are known as drakes. Drakes hold a slimmer frame, enhancing their ability to maneuver through their surroundings. Males boast bright and confident colors.
Suitable subspecies include: Ardeilliei, Anasilliei, & Brantilliei
Physical dimorphism for Halszkaraptor is mandatory.
 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Bild
Offspring Behavior
Upon hatching, Halszkaraptor imprint on the first dinosaur they see, ensuring they learn essential survival behaviors. Luckily for them, this is almost always their parents.
Imprinting on a species other than their own can be fatal, as hatchlings tend to only show fear when attacked or if the rest of the raft is panicked.
As their small size makes them an easy snack for many carnivores, Halszkaraptor have evolved to gain full mobility within moments of hatching.
Hatchling Halszkaraptor are excitable and loud, chirping happily in their warm and secure nests. They are particularly fond of their parents and are loudest when they are nearby. 
Halszkaraptor hatchlings only call using the chatter call. Other calls are only made once they reach Juvenile and have more developed vocal chords.
Hatchlings splash about in the shallows of nearby ponds, lakes and rivers. When they are comfortable, they practice diving to the depths of shallow areas to build up their ability to hold their breath for extended periods of time.
Young Halzkaraptor dash about with bursts of energy, but tire extremely quickly and return to their nest to rest often. After diving, offspring often take a short nap in their nest to recover.
Hatchlings are entirely dependent on their guardians - any Adult member of the raft - to provide food and they excitedly jump about when led to food, or are provided with morsels in their nest.
As Halszkaraptor reach Juvenile, their confidence grows, prompting them to begin experimenting with more complex calls. They do this by mimicking the calls they hear from other members of their raft.
Once one Juvenile uses a new call, others immediately copy, causing a joyful chorus of young voices all repeating the same notes and body movement.
Their extremely small size means they require an almost constant supply of food. Juvenile Halszkaraptor start swimming with the Adults, searching for food along river banks and lake shores, never straying too far from the nest.
Where possible, Hatchlings and Juveniles prefer feasting on fruits to fuel their rapid movements.
Halszkaraptor offspring are particularly attracted to the sight of bright colours and may get distracted by them. Should the distraction be something nearby that they can pick up, they will take the colourful object to their nest.
As Halszkaraptor reach adolescence, they start to explore further from the nest, without being accompanied by their imprinted guardian. It is at this time that rafts may choose to leave their nesting area behind and travel around their current POI, or potentially migrate if local resources are limited.
Adult Halszkaraptor take the adolescents on extended swimming expeditions, teaching their young which species are safe to interact with. See Cross-Species Interaction for more detail.
Sub-Adult Halszkaraptor are considered fully independent within the raft, but do not begin courting until they reach Adulthood.
Halszkaraptor rarely disperse from their natal rafts, and often stay with them for life.
 
Orphaned Behavior
A newly hatched Halszkaraptor without parents instinctively stays within the safety of its hatching site, chirping to themselves every now and again.
As the Hatchling reaches Juvenile, the dire realization that its parents are not coming begins to sink in. Hunger and loneliness drives them to roam the nearby area, searching for any sign of a parental figure.
The orphaned Halszkaraptor will explore endlessly, looking for a species to imprint upon to provide food. When desperately hungry, Halzkaraptor orphans attempt to eat anything that looks like food, testing reeds and bushes and seeking out berries and roots.
If the orphan is lucky enough to find another Halszkaraptor, it attaches to the other individual strongly. The orphan stays nearby its new parent at all times, observing and mimicking its every move.
Orphans imprint on the first species they come across, even if this is a carnivore. The young Halzkaraptor will rush up to their “parent” and chirp softly, staying as close to their legs as possible, and following them everywhere.
Due to an instinctual fear, Halszkaraptor do not imprint on crocodilian species such as Deinosuchus or Sarcosuchus.  They also do not imprint on raptor-like species, such as: Deinonychus, Latenivenatrix, Alioramus, Achillobator, Utahraptor.
If the orphan is attacked by their “parent”, they flee a short distance and continue to follow, careful to stay just out of reach. The rejection of an imprinted parent is extremely distressing to the orphan, and they may become more vulnerable to death from exposure by eating less often and forgetting to avoid other predatory species.
Persistent orphans sometimes carefully try to approach again, even if rejected multiple times, often when the “parent” is sleeping.  However, any orphan will eventually relent if continually aggressed.
Halszkaraptor that imprint refuse to leave their adoptive parent until they reach Sub-Adult, even if their “parent” is intolerant to them. At this age, their adult instincts kick in and they seek out their own kind.
These desperate attempts to be accepted by a “parent” can stretch into their adult life. Even when joining a raft, orphaned Halzkaraptor seek companionship desperately.
With other Halzkaraptor, previous orphans can be particularly sensitive to rejection by others. They tend to form stronger friendships with others and can come across as clingy, often becoming particularly protective parents.
Bild
While migrating on land, the raft moves in a single file line, a tactic used to minimize their physical footprint and reduce attraction from potential predators.
Halszkaraptor are keenly aware of their place in the food chain and always avoids danger where possible. The joyful socialization behaviors seen in a raft are somewhat dimmed, and individuals lose their confidence when near predators.
Halszkaraptor are fascinated by shiny and colorful objects. They often get distracted by bright flowers or shining pebbles, hoarding these items like treasures in their nests or resting places.
When the raft is relaxed and not facing danger, Halszkaraptor sometimes gather together on the water's surface, before diving in unison to hunt fish with shimmering scales or for shiny objects. 
After successful catches, they celebrate together, performing a symphony of calls and songs, nuzzling together and dancing.
When back on land, Halszkaraptor spend a considerable amount of time preening one another, and locating a sunny rock to bask on to help dry their plumage.
If an individual sustains a wound from a predator - or accidental injury - they seek out a patch of thick mud. Sitting and shaking their feathers into the mud helps to coat injuries and prevent infection. 
Halszkaraptor that are particularly clean will also bathe in mud to rid themselves of feather lice.
Halszkaraptor find delight in climbing to the top of waterfalls and leaping off into the water below in a chaotic, playful spree.
A single Halszkaraptor performing a dance can trigger a chain reaction within the raft, with others quickly joining in until the whole group is a wave of joyful, erratic movement, strengthening their bonds.
When a member of the raft finds lakeweed, other Halszkaraptor attempt to steal it, starting a rapid game of chase. The Halszkaraptor attempts to catch up to the member with the lakeweed, lightly snapping at their tail. Should the Halszkaraptor get bitten, they drop the lakeweed ready for the next member to take it.

Feather Lice
This is a roleplay behavior, and not an in-game feature. This is an optional affliction that affects Halzskaraptor under certain circumstances.
Halzskaraptor that spend too much time on land can sometimes pick up tiny parasites, known as feather lice from the damp vegetation on the edge habitat of rivers and lakes. 
They become increasingly itchy, and may shuffle their feathers more often in an attempt to groom themselves.
These small nuisances are left behind when larger dinosaurs swim across bodies of water, shying away from being submerged and waiting at the water’s edge for an unsuspecting victim.
To rid themselves of parasites, Halzskaraptor bathe themselves in mud patches, or fully submerge themselves in deep water to dislodge the miniature hitchhikers.
When joining a new raft, the newcomer will be carefully watched and many Halzskaraptor will choose to keep a safe distance until they have witnessed a thorough cleansing process by bathing in mud.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Halszkaraptor take short, frequent naps throughout the day, most commonly after a long journey or an eventful situation.
When settling down to sleep, Halszkaraptor seek out islands or driftwood floating upon the water, areas that are otherwise hard to reach for most predators. They are extremely heavy sleepers as a result, placing great trust in their chosen location.
They coop up in a tight group, preening their own and other's feathers and reaffirming bonds with cheerful affectionate calls before settling down to sleep, an action that often takes several attempts due to their excitable nature. Even after silence has fallen, a single call can cause the group to reignite in chatter and preening, causing for the process to restart once more.
 
Bild
Halszkaraptor are an affectionate species, frequently using affectionate calls :friendly_call: to reinforce social bonds.
When an unknown Halszkaraptor is welcomed into the raft, they are only truly accepted after the group comes across a mud patch and witnesses the new member cleansing themselves with it. This helps reassure others that they are not bringing any feather lice into the group.
Particularly close individuals within the raft will groom each other, pruning each other’s feathers.
Should a Halszkaraptor become injured, other members of the raft gift precious fruits to the injured Halszkaraptor to eat to enhance their recovery time.

Solitary Halszkaraptor
Lone Halszkaraptor struggle to survive due to their inherently social nature. Their sole focus is finding a raft to join, or failing that, seeking temporary protection from the much larger Lurdusaurus or Deinocheirus.
Solo Halszkaraptor are extremely flighty without the protection of their raft or other species they can group with.
Without the safety of a raft, the Halszkaraptor sticks to the shallows, avoiding deep water where predators lurk, and flocking between dense bushes wherever possible.
Bild
Internal aggression within the raft is virtually nonexistent. The raft’s survival depends on cooperation and therefore, they prioritize nurturing one another above all else.
Halszkaraptor do not tolerate members of the raft that consume remains such as meat, carrion or bones. Individuals caught doing so are relentlessly mobbed and shunned.

Shunning
Within the raft, a member being shunned will experience mobbing. Halszkaraptor circle around the target, nipping at them and hissing to display their disapproval.
Following this, they are then ignored. Raft members turn their backs, and refuse to allow them to settle beside them during downtimes.
Over time, the shunned individual is slowly forgiven, and begrudgingly accepted back into raft life.
Bild
Halszkaraptor are a highly curious species, and chirp and honk about most species they encounter.
Halszkaraptor are fond of Lurdusaurus. The semi-aquatic herbivore tolerates Halszkaraptor in their presence. Lurdusaurus help to ward off predators, while Halszkaraptor serve as excellent sentries.
Whilst searching for food, Halszkaraptor also provide for Lurdusaurus within their cross-species group. They can frequently be seen ferrying bundles of berries or reeds to their larger companions.
Halszkaraptor also share a strong relationship with Deinocheirus. They enjoy the calming presence of these much larger herbivores, and can be frequently seen cuddling close to them, preening through their feathers for insects.
Bild
Predator Reaction: Flighty
Halszkaraptor are a flighty species and when under attack, individuals disperse in various directions - heading for water, land or rocky terrain -  whichever the predator struggles to navigate.
Halszkaraptor does not necessarily flee until danger is known. Being as quick and agile as they are, they are capable of getting unnervingly close to predators without risking injury.
This is often seen with Spinosaurus. Though Spinosaurus are highly territorial and do not tolerate other species in their claimed water sources, Halszkarapator seems to be forgiven in this instance - likely as Spinosaurus rarely if ever manage to catch them.
Halszkaraptor aim for underwater plants or overground bushes that provide shelter. Where possible, they also enter small caves that are out of reach of larger predators.
Halszkaraptor are able to defend themselves against Tiny tier carnivores such as Rhamphorhynchus or Compsognathus, and may do so in unlimited numbers.
Halszkaraptor defend themselves in a mobbing style, erratically attacking the predator as a coordinated effort.
This is extended to Small tier carnivores if a pair are nesting within the raft.
In water, Halszkaraptor are a small yet rich meal for Sarcosuchus. As a result, Halszkaraptor never approach Sarcosuchus willingly. Even hatchling Halszkaraptor avoid them and do not imprint on these fierce crocodilians.
Halszkaraptor feel comfortable sharing their space with Sub-Adult and Adult Deinosuchus, an Apex crocodilian that does not bother to hunt such a small agile creature. However, hatchlings never imprint on Deinosuchus.
While on land, Halszkaraptor are particularly wary of Deinonychus. They are one of the few predators that are able to match the agility and speed of the Halszkaraptor, often working together in large dynasties to make light work of them.
Bild
Survival is a daily struggle, so Halszkaraptor breed often. Nest building is a communal activity where each member of the raft contributes, further strengthening the raft’s bonds.
In a raft, courtship is a communal affair, often with multiple females becoming ready to court and breed at the same time.
Their promiscuous strategy means a female will court and nest with several unrelated males at a time. As a result, paternity is rarely known, and the entire raft shares the duty of raising the young.

Courtship
Courtship begins with hens bending their necks back and lifting their heads to the sky, while letting out soft coos. This gesture includes raising her tail high, and is performed deliberately in front of males she has interest in, for multiple occasions until the message is clear.
Drakes that show interest in the performing hen watch her intently, before returning her display with one of their own - a mixture of bobbing and rocking in a dance-like motion.
Impressed hens return the gesture, and the pair perform a dance together, cooing and chirping affectionately. This is finished off with the hen's original display, matched by the drake who copies her moves.
Once this is finished, the drake follows along with the hen as she continues her performing for other nearby drakes - but may also slip away to court other hens at the same time.

Same-Sex Courtship
Occasionally, drakes and hens may attempt to court others of the same sex. The procedure is much the same as with opposite sex pairs, and multiple partners may cluster together with a view for adopting young and forming bonds.

Parenthood
Once hens have finished courting, they move off to build nests, closely assisted by all other members of the raft, including other, non-nesting hens.
All nests are built extremely close together. The eggs and young are cared for communally.
Halszkaraptor that have formed a same-sex bond build a nest accordingly, ready to adopt any stray hatchlings that wander over.
Hens then move to sit on their nests to incubate their eggs, lovingly tended to by all the nearby drakes. Same-sex pairings sit on their empty nest together, ready and waiting to scoop up orphaned hatchlings.
As young hatch, they are greeted with loving coos by their mother, and are preened to clean their wet feathers from the remains of their eggs.
Young are raised by the entire raft, but instinctively follow their mother - assuming she was the one who was there when they hatched and imprinted.
Offspring are free to wander between all nests in the raft, and receive care from any adult present.
Mothers dote primarily on their own young, but can be easily persuaded to keep watch over other nearby offspring as well.
Drakes, and non-nesting hens provide loving care and attention to all offspring.

Defending nesting sites
Up to Small tier carnivores are not permitted near to a nesting site. All members of a raft will work together to mob and drive away these carnivores.
Bild
As their once-explosive speed fades with age, an elderly Halszkaraptor comes to rely on stealth and caution to avoid danger.
In their final days, they may undertake quiet pilgrimages to locations from their past, with some even returning to the place they hatched to pass away.
Slower movements in old age lead to increased risk of feather lice, so elderly members spend an increasing amount of their time meticulously grooming themselves and rolling in mud baths.
When a member of the raft passes away, the others gather around the body in a quiet, somber circle to mourn their loss.
Members will gather small bunches of reeds, branches, and roots to cover the body of their fallen raft member. They lay them haphazardly over the body, trying to cover up the scent and protect their raft from hungry predators.
Bild
Halszkaraptor do not imprint on: Deinosuchus, Sarcosuchus, Deinonychus, Achillobator, Alioramus, Latenivenatrix, Utahraptor.
If a hen is nesting with multiple drakes, she must split her egg amount between them, posting separate nest posts with the lowered egg counts for the amount of eggs fathered by each male.

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes):  10-10-20-20 = 60 total
Combat Weight: 400
Adjusted Stats:
⁨
 - Combat weight increased to 400 from 350 
⁩ 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 22:16
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Halszkaraptor are Tiny Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Herbivores.
Halszkaraptor can group up to unlimited sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees.  These groups are known as a raft.
Halszkaraptor are passive.
Halszkaraptor can have up to unlimited in an engagement.
Halszkaraptor flee from all carnivores from Small tier and higher. However, when nesting, an entire raft may work together to attack up to Small tier carnivores to defend their nesting site.
Halszkaraptor are a peaceful species, living in rafts that all work together to raise young communally. Social bonds form easily, and courtship is promiscuous, with multiple individuals nesting with other individuals. As such, paternity is rarely known, but all Halszkaraptor, including non-nesting ones, show love and affection to all offspring.
Halszkaraptor are curious, and often dance, sing and play. They are fascinated by shiny objects and decorate their nests with them.
Halszkaraptor are vulnerable when solitary, and frequently seek protection from larger herbivores if separated from their raft.
Halszkaraptor are susceptible to feather lice, and newcomers are only fully accepted after bathing in mud.
Table of Contents
Details
Offspring Behavior
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Predator Reaction
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Profile Notes
Quick View

Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?