Kentrosaurus
Kentrosaurus was a small, herbivorous dinosaur that lived during the Late Jurassic period. It belonged to the stegosaur family, known for its distinctive row of bony plates along its back and spikes on its tail. It likely used its tail spikes for defense against predators. This dinosaur primarily lived in what is now Africa and fed on low-lying plants and vegetation.

Author: Kittyful
Photo: Beadil
Profile inspired by llamas, alpaca, porcupines and hedgehogs.


Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


5_challenging_kentro.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 03.01.2025 22:36
Overview
Details
Medium Cathemeral Terrestrial Herbivore
Kentrosaurus form promiscuous bonds.
Kentrosaurus are nomadic, but become sedentary when joining a stegosaurid herd.
Kentrosaurus have an aggressive but avoidant nature.
Kentrosaurus may group with: Miragaia, Stegosaurus.
Kentrosaurus may defend these species.
Kentrosaurus shun albino individuals, but tolerate melanistics.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
8 Sub/Adults
Unlimited offspring
Unlimited adoptees

This group is known as a bristle.

Additionally, Kentrosaurus can group with 2 adult Miragaia and 4 adult Stegosaurus up to their own species group limits.
Unlimited offspring and adoptees below Sub Adult of these species are permitted.

This group is known as a stegosaurid herd.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Predator Reaction: Headstrong
4 Individuals may enter an engagement.
Kentrosaurus may actively defend Miragaia and Stegosaurus grouped with them. 
Alongside up to 2 Stegosaurus and 1 Miragaia, up to 4 Kentrosaurus may engage.
Fights between males over females are fought 1 on 1.
Kentrosaurus not part of a stegosaurid herd with at least 1 Miragaia or Stegosaurus will flee from Apex carnivores.
Kentrosaurus in a full bristle do not tolerate other Kentrosaurus bristles in the same POI, or near their stegosaurid herd, and must challenge them out or leave.

Preferred Diet
Kentrosaurus young are only able to digest soft fruits and berries.
From juvenile, many Kentrosaurus expand their diets to include nuts, roots and flowers.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
Kentrosaurus nest in dense foliage in their preferred POIs. Their nests are constructed out of reeds, branches and roots.

Physical Dimorphism
♀️ Females lack quills on their back ends.
Suitable subspecies include: aethiopicus, multiscornus
♂️ Males have quills on their back ends.
Suitable subspecies include: parvusplectrum
Males that do not take the parvusplectrum subspecies are considered to be "sneaky males" and are treated as females by all. Females that choose the parvusplectrum subspecies are infertile and cannot produce eggs.
 
Growing Up
Offspring Behavior
Baby Kentrosaurus, known as crias, are on their feet and mobile just moments after hatching, much to the encouragement of their parents.
Crias are shy, often hiding behind their parents' legs and keeping to themselves in the hatchling phase. They explore the world by nudging and prodding objects with their snouts, often resulting in their siblings and parents being poked or bumped, as well as other species brave enough to approach them.
At juvenile, they start to shed their initial fearfulness and become more confident, straying further from their parents to start more exploration of their environment. This curiosity, led by gentle prodding with their snouts or swiping with their tails, often gets them into trouble, even if it is well-meaning.
Crias that are part of a stegosaurid herd with Stegosaurus present quickly learn not to bother their larger cousins - and it is usually these species that they stop "investigating" first.
However, crias that herd with Miragaia have a different relationship. Miragaia's patient natures tend to tolerate Kentrosaurus young's cheeky behavior for longer, and naturally they gravitate towards them, happy to push boundaries and receive care from these tolerant dinosaurs.
Over time, this relationship only strengthens. Crias instinctively drift towards Miragaia for affection and guidance - especially when their own parents are otherwise preoccupied.
Parents and siblings often tolerate their inquisitive nudges and prodding, with crias occasionally bumping spines, tails, or limbs out of curiosity. Other bristle members may not be so tolerant - depending on their individual personality.
Crias are incredibly alert, and are quick to recognize safety cues from members of the stegosaurid herd. They scatter when their parents make alarm calls, diving into the nearby undergrowth to hide. This instinct allows them to dart to safety in the surrounding environment, while adults handle any potential threats.
Crias often chew on bark, rocks, or even the tails of larger herd mates - sometimes provoking exasperated responses from adults.
Like other stegosaurids, Kentrosaurus juveniles begin engaging in play as a means of learning important skills. They often spar with one another, turning their small, flexible tails towards each other in mock displays of strength. These sessions are brief and rarely escalate to physical harm, with most tail swings sweeping far enough way to ensure they don't hit one another.
Should a cria land a hit against another, both crias will call out in alarm and rush to the side of a caregiver for reassurance.
Crias also mimic their parents, trying to copy feeding patterns, tail movements, and even defensive postures. Their attempts are often clumsy but met with encouragement from adults.
By the time crias reach adolescence, they become far more coordinated and confident in their abilities. With more pronounced spines, and the beginning of physical maturity starting, they begin testing their tails in earnest, using them as a tool for both defense and communication.
Adolescent Kentrosaurus spend more time with others of their own age, forming loose, mixed-sex groups for social interaction and grazing. Though still bonded closely to their parents and caregivers, they approach the world with more independence, and seek reassurance much less frequently.
As they approach Sub-Adult, Kentrosaurus offspring are driven out of the bristle by other adults unless there is room for them to remain, and they are not related to all others in the group.
If there are no viable future breeding partners for them, Kentrosaurus offspring themselves will willingly leave the bristle.
This behavior is reasonably amicable, with both parents and other adult members shaking at the newly matured young and swiping their tails in the air. They are not outright aggressed unless they are especially persistent.
Other recently maturing stegosaurids may be grouped with, forming a new stegosaurid herd.
Recently mature offspring may or may not group together when they leave at Sub-Adult. They usually splinter off into smaller groups of no more than 2 or 3 related individuals, leaving enough room for them to encounter others for breeding opportunities.
Orphaned Behavior
Crias face significant challenges when hatching alone, but can still make it to adulthood if they are able to avoid predation and other threats.
Their instinctual shyness in the first phase of their life is actually beneficial in this regard, driving them to hide from potential threats.
As they become more curious and confident in the juvenile phase, they begin searching for others of their kind - or other stegosaurids that they could group with and receive care from.
Once adopted by another stegosaurid, crias quickly adapt to the group’s dynamic and settle with ease. They mimic their new “family,” learning their behaviors and preferences, and often form bonds with tolerant individuals - especially Miragaia.
Those that do not find others until adulthood are often more cautious as adults, lacking some of the confidence that their peers develop from being cared for when young.
 
General Behavior
Kentrosaurus - like their cousins Stegosaurus and Miragaia - are a cathemeral species, but showcase active behavior both day and night, with only short naps taken intermittently at both times.
During the cooler early morning of dawn, and the cooler period as the sun goes down at dusk, Kentrosaurus are at their most energetic - often engaging in playful sparring, running in open spaces, and shaking their bodies against trees and vegetation.
In the hotter midday hours, Kentrosaurus opt to seek shade under trees or rocky overhangs, preferring to rest to avoid overheating - especially in the Dry Season.
Kentrosaurus are not territorial, and remain nomadic for all of their lives. However, they are flexible - and will opt to follow the other stegosaurids when in a stegosaurid herd. This means they will confine themselves to a Stegosaurus' territory when grouped with them, but remain nomadic when alone or just with Miragaia.
Kentrosaurus are naturally cautious, but not as aggressive as Stegosaurus. Their innate reaction to anything that spooks them is to spit - a behavior that serves as a defensive move by temporarily surprising a would-be predator, as well as something that that signifies to others of their kind.
During the Dry Season, Kentrosaurus focus on conserving water and staying close to reliable sources, such as rivers or shaded pools. They feel alarmed if too far from a water source at these times, and quickly prefer to move on if a water source drops to low, undrinkable qualities.
In the Rainy Season, Kentrosaurus seem far happier individuals - taking advantage of abundant foliage, and roaming further from known water sources, realizing that water is far more accessible in this period.
Kentrosaurus seem to have a fondness for water. They are confident when wading into rivers and shallow pools, using their tails to stir up cooler water over their bodies.
During the Dry Season, they frequently bathe and roll in mud to cool down and protect their skin from the sun. Unlike Stegosaurus, they are comfortable entering deeper waters though they are slow swimmers, allowing them to cross rivers when needed.
Kentrosaurus particularly enjoy eating nuts and roots, crushing them with their beaks. They forage for food on the ground most often, leaving berries typically for young or other stegosaurids.
Kentrosaurus rub against trees frequently, brushing their backs and sides against them to clean and sharpen their spines. This behavior is communal, with several individuals sometimes taking turns on the same tree, leaving distinct markings behind.
Social Interaction
Kentrosaurus travel in relatively loose social groups with a roughly even gender ratio.
Sometimes, this gender ratio can be heavily skewed towards one gender. This is tolerated for the majority of the time, but may cause groups to break up if they encounter others of the opposite gender, and form new groups.
Both males and females show equal levels of affection to each other - including towards others of the same gender as them. Mutual nuzzling, or gentle prodding with their snouts is a common sign of tenderness.
Same sex pairs do form, with those individuals opting to spend the majority of their time together. They may still nest with the opposite sex from time to time.
Even adults enjoy playful behaviors - with individuals landing a well-placed tail swipe on another's rump before sprinting away, prompting the target to turn and chase them. Both parties seem to thoroughly enjoy this play, and have even been observed taking it in turns, almost like a game of "tag".
Bristle members take it in turns to catch naps throughout the day and night, often closely watched over by another who will patrol around them, ready to signal for threats. Typically, smaller pairs can start to form within a bristle - but these are not mated pairs; instead pairings based around friendship.
When traveling, the bristle opt to stay close together, corralling young and elderly individuals towards the middle to keep them protected from threats.
Kentrosaurus are wholly social with one another - but sometimes have a sudden mood change, prompting an otherwise gregarious individual to suddenly withdraw, and take themselves to a quieter place away from the others.
This behavior is confusing for other Kentrosaurus, but all Kentrosaurus experience these mood swings throughout their lives - even as adults. It is thought that a fluctuation of hormones - usually before nesting periods - is responsible for these temporary changes.
Just as quickly as they change, however, the mood dissipates, and Kentrosaurus resume their normal gregarious selves.
 
Aggressive Interaction
Disagreements - usually over prime resting spots, during courtship, or just over who gets to eat first - are initiated with spits, aimed directly at each other's faces.
Kentrosaurus are also excessively dramatic - and are prone to loud, angry bellows and tail swings to show their displeasure.
All scuffles within a bristle begin with spits, and typically end there before anything more physical occurs.
Kentrosaurus that encounter another Kentrosaurus bristle - and do not have room for others to join them - become aggressive if neither are willing to leave the POI.
First encounters begin with both bristles approaching each other and inspecting members over. In some cases, a bristle might have too many of one gender - and if this is the case, especially for both sides, both groups are amicable to one another, splintering off to form new bristles with more even gender ratios. 
For those that have little interest in this, and wish to push the other out of the POI or steal their place in the Stegosaurid herd instead - the confrontation escalates to a Challenge.

Challenges to remain in the POI:
Challenges to remain in a POI is only possible if both bristle groupings are not part of a Stegosaurid herd - or both bristles are accompanied by their own stegosaurid herd.
When not in a stegosaurid herd, the entirety of the Kentrosaurus bristle will face off against other Kentrosaurus.
This challenge always begins with spitting back and forth, before aggression rapidly escalates into fierce tail smacks against each other's bodies, with the intention to cause their rivals to bleed out and forfeit.
This challenge is fought until an individual on one of the sides reaches deathscars - which then forfeits the challenge for their entire bristle, and forces them to abandon their rights to the area and leave the POI.
If in a stegosaurid herd that is being challenged by another stegosaurid herd, Kentrosaurus will not join the fight, standing on the sidelines nervously and leaving the combat to the Stegosaurus or Miragaia in their herd.
Challenges to take a place in the Stegosaurid Herd:
When Kentrosaurus approach a stegosaurid herd to challenge a rival Kentrosaurus out and take their place, there are three options:
1) If the Kentrosaurus bristle has room, the new Kentrosaurus are absorbed into the bristle grouped in the stegosaurid herd.
2) If a bristle is full but needs to balance its gender ratio, and the new Kentrosaurus helps achieve this, members of the more numerous gender will compete in battles with each other to weed out the weakest member. The individual who loses the most battles (or simply forfeits) leaves to make room for the newcomer.
If a Kentrosaurus bristle is entirely female for example, and the new approaching Kentrosaurus is a male, all females will fight until a clear loser is decided. The common loser of each challenge is ousted from the bristle, making space for the new male.
Sometimes, if two bristles approach, they might opt to swap members and form new bristles without any fighting.
Additionally, some Kentrosaurus may choose to leave willingly, giving up their spot without the need for bloodshed.
3) If the Kentrosaurus bristle does not have room, and a balanced gender ratio, the approaching Kentrosaurus must challenge for a position to replace someone in the bristle.
They must single out another individual in the bristle to target as their sparring partner - and solidify the choice by spitting over that Kentrosaurus.
The attacked Kentrosaurus will spit back, before the two move into the open and begin a challenge - landing fierce and aggressive hits with their tails.
This battle continues until one individual reaches deathscars - thus forfeiting the engagement, and being forced to give up their place to the newcomer.
If the bristle member is forced to give up their spot and has a close bond with another, or is a mother with offspring, the offspring will go with her - and the closely bonded individual may choose to leave with them.
 
Cross-Species Interaction
Kentrosaurus form close bonds with other stegosaurid species - such as Miragaia and Stegosaurus.
Miragaia may group with Kentrosaurus up to their own species group limit, and are frequently welcomed by Kentrosaurus bristles to form a stegosaurid herd. Once part of a herd, Miragaia are considered faithful group members, and defended the same as if they were Kentrosaurus themselves.
Miragaia are a very parental species, and Kentrosaurus encourage their young from juvenile age to flock towards them, enabling them more eyes and ears to keep tabs on rambunctious offspring.
Kentrosaurus willingly share food and space with Miragaia, and defend them from threats if there are no Stegosaurus protectors.
Stegosaurus may group with Kentrosaurus up to their own species group limit, and are frequently welcomed by Kentrosaurus bristles to form a stegosaurid herd. Once part of a herd, Stegosaurus are considered faithful group members, and defended the same as if they were Kentrosaurus themselves.
Stegosaurus are impeccable heavyweights and a highly valuable contribution to a stegosaurid herd. Kentrosaurus benefit under the protection from their stronger cousins, and repay the favor by staying alert, and acting as a sentry species.
Kentrosaurus willingly share food and space with Stegosaurus, and defend them from threats if they are alone.

When another stegosaurid is spotted: 
Kentrosaurus will respond with a broadcast call :broadcast_call:  when alerted to an ungrouped stegosauruid spotted near their herd. Kentrosaurus do not get involved in squabbles between Miragaia and Stegosaurus for positions in the stegosaurid herd. They merely watch from a distance, and do not intervene.

Challenges between two stegosaurid herds:
These are fought between the lead Stegosaurus bulls of the herd. 
Grouped Miragaia and Kentrosaurus stand at the sidelines in support of their lead bull. 
If no Stegosaurus are in the challenging herd, the herd with the stegosaurus will win by default and the loser must abandon the POI.
If no Stegosaurus exist in either herd, the Miragaia fleet will challenge in their own profile specific aggression reactions to determine which herd wins the right to remain in the POI.

Aggression towards other species by the stegosaurid herd:
The stegosaurid herd does not tolerate other carnivores and herbivores spotted in line of sight of the group. When found, all members of the stegosaurid herd aggressively ward off the invader with bellows and threatening displays. If the other species responds with aggression, does not respond at all, or does not move out of LOS, the entire stegosaurid herd will engage in a challenge for the right to exist in the POI. If either side forfeits ( :friendly_call: ) or a body has dropped - the engagement ends and the loser is forced to abandon the area and move on.
 
Aggression towards other species by a Kentrosaurus-only group:
All other species - including small carnivores and herbivores - are met with aggression.
Any species that is spotted within line of sight of the bristle is aggressed with aggressive :threaten_call: calls, and if not responsive enough to leave line of sight they will be chased out by up to 4 Kentrosaurus.
Should the chasing not work, they may enter an engagement. 
They can forfeit at any time, but are forced to forfeit when one member of the group reaches deathscars.
If the other species is territorial, the bristle is forced to leave the POI.
If they are not, and only wish to consume resources in the area, Kentrosaurus cannot push them out again until the species timer is up, and is forced to tolerate their presence near them or move on themselves.
Kentrosaurus do not attempt to do this with Apex sauropod species, such as Apatosaurus, Ampelosaurus or Argentinosaurus. They recognize the potential threat these species could pose to them in an engagement, and begrudgingly tolerate them in their vicinity.
They will, however, still aggressively call at them to show their displeasure.
Allosaurus provoke a highly aggressive response in Kentrosaurus, and are the priority target for Kentrosaurus to drive away from a stegosaurid herd if multiple species are within the POI.
 
Predator Reaction
The very first reaction all Kentrosaurus have when spotting a predator is to spit.
Spits are aimed directly at the predator as the Kentrosaurus runs from it to alert the rest of the bristle or herd, swinging its tail behind it.
Once the herd is alerted to the presence of the predator, babies and elderly/injured members also spit, before running and scattering, trying to find somewhere nearby to hide.
Babies or weak/elderly individuals may run towards Miragaia if part of a stegosaurid herd, and the Miragaia are adopting their defensive stance. This provides a quick opportunity for young and the weak to get immediate protection, surrounded by these larger herbivores.
Kentrosaurus keep moving when faced with predators. Staying in one spot - unless hiding as a baby or weak individual - is usually fatal for Kentrosaurus, so they make sure to stay on their feet, swinging their tails and spitting at their opponents.
If faced with Apex carnivores, and in a Kentrosaurus-only group, all Kentrosaurus will opt to flee rather than defend.
Kentrosaurus utilise Stegosaurus as meat shields where possible, enjoying their protection when part of a stegosaurid herd.
When any member of the stegosaurid herd is hunted, up to 4 Kentrosaurus may join the engagement.
When faced with Apex carnivores, Kentrosaurus in a bristle and not grouped with other stegosaurids prefer to flee, only fighting back when cornered.
Offspring are always defended by their mother.
 
Courtship & Parenthood
Courting is initiated entirely by females, who enter a period of broodiness, and signify this by collecting a round object.
This round object - such as a nut, pine cone, mushroom etc - is carried around in her mouth, and protected fiercely by the female, who becomes very aggressive if another member of the bristle tries to take it from her.
Males circle the herd during rest stops to look out for signs of these broody females. If lucky enough to find one, he will begin circling her, affectionate calling and shaking his spines to gauge her interest.
If she is not interested in him, the female will call aggressively at him - sometimes even escalating to spitting at him if he is overly persistent, and not listening to her cues.
If she is interested in him, she will instead call affectionately to him, and from there be lead over to a bush by the male, where she will place a nest to rear her young.
Female Kentrosaurus usually lay 4 eggs, no matter the season. Once she has placed a nest beside the bush, she conceives two eggs by that male.
If no other males approach her after 10 minutes, the other two eggs can then be sired by the first male - or the female may opt to only lay 2.
However, males can and often do court multiple females at a time, so when the first female has placed a nest, that male will rush over to court a second female, constantly looking back to make sure no other males approach his female on the nest.
Time is of the essence, and males may seem more rushed when courting subsequent females so that he can get back to drive out other males. He will always lead more females back to the same bush, so that they can place their nests next to each other - making it easier for him to guard them from rival males.
Males that spot a female on a nest - unguarded - might opt to try and court her sneakily to sire the other half of her eggs. He will do so by circling her while she rests upon the nest, courting her in much the same way as the first male did in the beginning.
Females are very open to these prospects if the other male impresses them enough, keen to have genetic diversity for their offspring.
These males can attempt to court females in this way that are not even part of their own bristle.
If she accepts, she will call affectionately back, and the male will quickly sire the final two eggs before leaving quickly - not wishing to be caught by the original male.
If she rejects him, or her entire clutch is already laid, she will aggressive call towards him and spit in his direction. Males always take the hint in this instance, and move on.
 
The original male may sometimes "catch" this sneaky male and rush in to fight him off before he can sire the clutch.
He will not give any warning on his return - instead immediately racing over to spit at the male, before turning and swinging his tail, smacking his spines fiercely against the rival male's body.
The other male can opt to either forfeit and flee immediately, or fight back for his right to sire the other half of the eggs. The loser is the first one to reach deathscars - and is forced to forfeit.
If the original male is the loser, he must step aside and permit the courtship begrudgingly. Knowing that half the eggs are still his, he will continue to care for the female and his offspring, unable to determine which offspring are biologically his and which are not.
The other male, meanwhile, doesn't offer much parental input - leaving this up to the original male. If the other male is from another bristle, they might never encounter each other again.
If the original male is the winner, the sneaky male is chased out, and the rest of the eggs in the female's nest are fathered by the original male.
Once eggs hatch, the original male spends time with all females he has successfully courted and aids them in rearing offspring. Though babies instinctively prefer to stick to their mothers, fathers still offer valuable input, especially as they grow.
At Sub-Adult, newly mature offspring are driven out of the bristle by the adults in the group unless there is room for them. However, if there are no future breeding prospects for them (and they wish to nest in future), they may opt to leave of their own accord.
Both parents willingly allow Miragaia to gather some - or all, if they are overwhelmed - of their offspring if part of a stegosaurid herd with them. This can be temporary or permanent - with those having low parental drive happy to offload them, and others content with just having temporary breaks from their energetic offspring.
Females will happily accept adoptees into their brood. In contrast, males do not adopt - but will tolerate them to remain in the bristle.
 
Elderly & End of Life (Optional)
Elder Kentrosaurus begin to slow down as they age, often choosing to remain at the back of the bristle or stegosaurid herd during migrations.
They patrol far less, and have slower reaction times - making their reliability as a sentry species for a stegosaurid herd wane over time.
Joint stiffness and muscle fatigue becomes more common, limiting their ability to use their tails with the precision and strength they once had. As a result, elders are less likely to engage in defensive displays, relying on younger herd members for protection and intimidation.
As their mobility diminishes, elder Kentrosaurus spend longer periods resting and grazing in shaded or protected areas. They prefer areas with plenty of cover where they can remain undisturbed.
Despite their reduced mobility, elder Kentrosaurus remain deeply protective of the bristle's younger members. They act as calming presences, using their tails to nudge crias or juveniles away from danger or toward safer grazing spots.
Those elders that do manage to still produce young are far more likely to accept a grouped Miragaia's offer of parental care for their young.
Notes
Kentrosaurus pursue threats till they are out of the herd's line of sight. If threats return to the herd within 15 minutes, they can be attacked on sight.

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes):  20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 2700
Adjusted Stats:
⁨
- Health increased to 750 from 550
- Spike damage increased 10%
- Sprint speed increased by 4.65%
- Stamina recovery rate improved
- Subspecies buffs removed
- Spikes hide bleed amount increased
- Spit cooldown reduced to 1 second
- Tail attacks bleed amount increased
⁩ 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.06.2025 22:06
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 22:31
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 01:42
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Kentrosaurus are Medium Cathemeral Terrestrial Herbivores.
Kentrosaurus can group up to 8 sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees.  They can also group with Miragaia and Stegosaurus to form a stegosaurid herd.
Kentrosaurus are aggressive.
Kentrosaurus can have up to 4 in an engagement.
Kentrosaurus do not flee unless in a Kentrosaurus-only group and faced with Apex carnivores. Otherwise, they actively chase away threats from their bristle or herd.
Kentrosaurus are more skittish than their larger cousins, and react to almost any situation that surprises them by spitting.
Kentrosaurus are nomadic, but flexible when in a stegosaurid herd - opting to move to become more sedentary when grouped with Miragaia or Stegosaurus.
Kentrosaurus females can nest with up to two males at once if left unguarded. Sneaky males may employ this tactic to secretly father offspring without the parental responsibility of rearing them.
Kentrosaurus group up with and defend Stegosaurus & Miragaia, forming a multi-species herd known as a stegosaurid herd. Kentrosaurus serve as sentries for Stegosaurus, while Miragaia are excellent caretakers for young.
Kentrosaurus groups - called bristles - like to maintain a roughly even ratio of genders, and sometimes split up when meeting other bristles to help balance their ratios.
Profile in Under 60 Seconds - Video Series
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bi5K0rhe6gw
YouTube
Dynasty Realism
Dynasty Realism: Profiles in Under 60 Seconds - Kentrosaurus
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?
Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Kentrosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

This will be formatted in the correct place when the updated profile releases!