Styracosaurus
Styracosaurus was a striking ceratopsian dinosaur that lived during the Late Cretaceous period, around 75 million years ago, in what is now North America. Known for its large frill adorned with long, spiked horns and a prominent nose horn, Styracosaurus was both a defensive and visually impressive herbivore. Growing up to 18 feet long, it traveled in herds, grazing on low-lying vegetation. Its formidable appearance likely helped deter predators and played a role in social interactions within its group.

⁨
Author: Ania with contributions from Kittyful
Photo: XoBright
Profile inspired by Musk Oxen.
⁩

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond
 

image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 11.01.2025 18:04
Overview
Details
Medium Cathemeral Terrestrial Herbivore
Styracosaurus form harem bonds.
Styracosaurus are nomadic.
Styracosaurus have a tolerant nature with their own species and other ceratopsians they herd with, and aggressive to other species.
Styracosaurus may group with: Pachyrhinosaurus, Albertosaurus and Psittacosaurus.
Styracosaurus may defend these species.
Styracosaurus tolerate albino and melanistic individuals.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Unlimited Sub/Adults, lead by a dominant male 
Multiple males within the herd may have their own harem (group of females).
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a herd.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Predator Reaction: ⁨Headstrong⁩
Unlimited Styracosaurus may form a defensive circle.
They stand their ground in the circle, but can move as far as 1 body length forward from the circle to land a hit, before resuming the formation.
Up to 4 Styracosaurus may actively engage threats outside of the formation, which include chasing down to land hits - but not further than line of sight of the herd. 
These 4 Styracosaurus may chase the predator even after the predator forfeits until they leave line of sight of the herd.
If there are 4 or less Styracosaurus in a herd, and all members of the group are active defenders, they may not chase predators who have forfeited for more than 5 bodylengths.
Other species they group with may be defended inside the protective circle, or accepted to join the formation.
Psittacosaurus of any age may be actively defended.
Styracosaurus avoid conflict with: Eotriceratops, Ampelosaurus, Apatosaurus, Argentinosaurus.
They will not start engagements against these species, and back off/forfeit when challenged by them.
Styracosaurus become nervous around Daspletosaurus. They prefer to avoid conflict and are less aggressive until attacked.
They will defend themselves if attacked, but do not attack first.
Styracosaurus flee from pairs of Apex carnivores.

Preferred Diet
Flowers, nuts, roots, fruit.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 3 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
Styracosaurus nest in open areas with good visibility when in a large herd (5+ members), but nest in dense foliage when in a smaller herd. Their nests are constructed out of reeds, branches and roots.
Styracosaurus opt to nest near other ceratopsians if herding with them.

Physical Dimorphism
Styracosaurus have no physical subspecies dimorphism, but males have brighter or more contrasting frills.
Males are known as stags and females are known as does.
Physical dimorphism is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the color differences may struggle during courtship.
 
Growing Up
Offspring Behavior
Starting from birth, Styracosaurus babies, known as fawns, are quite clumsy - but it doesn't take long for them to stand up and start exploring their surroundings. Calves stay close to their mothers while they become familiar with them and their siblings.
At juvenile, fawns begin to explore away from their mother's side, choosing to play with calves from other nests, and even other ceratopsians they may be herding with.
Fawns simulate fights by clashing their crests together, beginning without aggression at first - but young stags can sometimes get carried away, requiring intervention from their mothers.
When Styracosaurus reach adolescence, they begin to become more unruly, moving further and further away from their mother, which often causes them to get lost among the other adults and calves within the herd. 
This stage is where sons begin turning their attention to the adult stags in the herd, following behind them to imitate and copy adult bullfights.
Daughters are typically more social than their brothers, and spend time socializing with the rest of the herd, copying along in common behaviors with their mothers.
At sub-adult, Styracosaurus are considered adults, and are allowed to participate in courtship, bull fighting, herd defense and protection.
Males tend to become more distant socially, whereas females remain with closely forged bonds.
Siblings do often develop bonds with each other that can last a lifetime.
Once they reach maturity, Styracosaurus become fully part of the herd. Daughters will attempt to join the harems of other unrelated males, and sons will attempt to form their own harems.
 
Orphaned Behavior
Orphans that hatch without a parent (or lose their parent) immediately run towards sheltered areas. Dense foliage or rocky outlooks help shield them from predators, and they skittishly dart between spots of cover as they grow.
If an orphan has siblings, or spots other fellow orphans, they will always band together for both comfort and safety.
An orphan's main objective is to find another adult female of their species to take them in. This can sometimes prove difficult, but Styracosaurus will continuously search until they either find one, or become adults themselves.
In the absence of adult members of their species, Styracosaurus orphans will follow any ceratopsian they encounter, mixing with the rest of the fawns in the hope of not being detected as "strangers" and obtaining protection from their new "family." This does not go well with less tolerant ceratopsians, such as Eotriceratops and Pentaceratops.
 
General Behavior
Styracosaurus are nomadic creatures that form huge herds, roaming through dense forests or arid grasslands in search of food.
Styracosaurus are sociable but very stubborn, which generates rivalries and small squabbles within the herd  - though these never turn lethal.
Styracosaurus enjoy the company of other ceratopsians in their group, and can often be seen together at nesting sites - even choosing to nest close to others in the herd. Despite this, and the fact that they even herd with these other species, Styracosaurus are still possessive about their food, often refusing to share it with other species.
They tend to be one of the more aggressive ceratopsians in their mixed ceratopsian herd - often referred to as "attack dogs" of the group. They fearlessly charge around their companions - only hesitating when the opponents are Daspletosaurus or pairs of Apex carnivores.
Styracosaurus like to sharpen and scratch their horns on rocks and trees, leaving marks that show their passage through an area. 
Some males compete passively against others, trying to leave marks higher up than other males, emphasizing their great size and strength.
Styracosaurus like to cool off in shallow water during the hottest hours, even rolling in the mud to protect their skin and wounds. Although they are not territorial creatures, there will always be at least one adult member (usually a male) watching in case of danger, while the rest of the herd is resting.
Social Interaction
Styracosaurus herds have established hierarchies. These are made up of several males with their own harems, lead by the most dominant male and his harem.
The dominant stag is the male that has the largest harem. This position cannot be fought for, only won through proving himself and claiming the most cows.
This stag is respected by the rest of the herd, and carries the weight of leading the group.
Does without a harem tend to gravitate towards him, impressed by his experience and leadership. As a result, the dominant male has the largest harem.
Styracosaurus have a natural inclination for rough play - and this is showcased most clearly between males. Using their impressive frills and horns, they engage in sparring matches, competing with each other to win the favor of unclaimed females, as well as practising their skills.
While males can choose several does to join their harem, does only belong to one harem at a time, and dedicate themselves to the stag leading it.
These females form part of the male's harem, and become very sociable over time with other females in the harem.
Within each harem, the oldest and most experienced female asserts herself as the 'dominant' female, responsible for keeping the other cows in the harem in line.
Does show great affection to their stag and biological relations both within the harem and the wider herd, but tend to be standoffish to newcomers. When a stag integrates a new doe into the harem, existing does give the new female a cold welcome - even going so far as to block her from food and turning their backs on her as she approaches.
This "trial period" can last for a variable amount of time, with the dominant female deciding when this temporary period of shunning ends and she is allowed to further integrate with the rest of the does.
Stags are respectful of each other's does in their harems, and do not attempt to steal does from others. Stags caught attempting to do so are often expelled from the herd.
Males that demonstrate good behavior and responsibility are more accepted by the females in their harem. If the females in a harem particularly trust a male, they may entrust their calves into his care while they go to eat.
 
Aggressive Interaction
Styracosaurus are very noisy when becoming aggressive. Growling and headshaking behaviors are common.

Sparring matches between stags:
Stags frequently engage in sparring matches with one another in a group - both those that have harems, and those that are bachelors.
Sparring matches seem to be a consensual and almost enjoyable behavior for stags - beginning with aggressive growling and head shaking to signify their desire to begin a match.
Once the opponent accepts, they use their hard heads and spiked horns to butt against their opponent, alternating between blocking and landing blows.
These battles continue until one individual reaches half health - signifying them as the loser of the match. These fights never go further - except if two stags are fighting over a particular unclaimed doe.
Should both stags desire the same doe, the fight is extended until one opponent reaches deathscars.
Stags never fight for does that are already in a harem, and respect each other's boundaries.
The loser of the sparring match must walk with his harem (if he has one) behind the winner the next time the herd migrates - a signal of their submission, and a position that changes next time they pause at a rest stop and begin sparring again.
Stags do not begrudge this, and fall into line willingly, knowing that next time the roles could be reversed.
The dominant stag is never challenged by another stag, but may opt to spar playfully with other stags.
If the dominant stag loses these playful spars, he does not lose his position.

Emerging as the dominant stag:
The dominant stag position can change each play session, and is not set in stone.
When a new herd forms, the stag with the largest amount of does in his harem naturally becomes the dominant stag, and all other stags (and does) within the herd are happy to follow his leadership.
This stag leads all others in the herd from the front, with other stags and their harems falling in line behind them during migrations.
Should there be a situation where a herd forms, and two or more stags have the same number of does (including no does, in an all bachelor group), this position is decided by a sparring match.
Only stags with the same number of does in their harem participate, and the winner of all these sparring matches ends up as the dominant stag.

Dominant stag challenges:
Other stags do not challenge the dominant stag for his position. His position remains all whilst he has the highest number of does in his herd, and is respected by other stags.
Stags do not begin sparring matches with the dominant stag, but will accept if the dominant bull begins the match.
The dominant stag losing a sparring match in this manner does not remove him from his position.
 
However, if a subordinate stag ends up with more or equal the number of does to the dominant stag, the position can change - effectively making does the "king makers" of the herd group.
In this instance, the dominant stag must rush to try and claim another doe to ensure he has the highest number of does. If he cannot do so within 15 minutes, he must battle for his position:
Both stags will engage in a sparring match, signified by loud broadcasting by the current dominant bull directly towards the rival stag.
The entirety of the herd gather around, forming a circle around the two opponents to define out a battle ground.
Stags fight down to deathscars, with the winner becoming (or keeping) the dominant stag position.
If the new dominant stag has less or equal number of cows to his bested opponent, he must take does from this other stag to ensure he keeps the highest number of does in his harem.
If they are of equal number of does, he may take 1 doe.
If the other stag has more does, he may take whatever number will take the other stag to have 1 less doe than the dominant stag.
Preference is given to the does themselves - in these takeover situations, the new dominant stag always opts to allow the does to decide amongst them which of them will join the dominant stag. 
Does always accept these changeover situations, and at least one doe will volunteer herself - usually together with a close friend or relative if she has one with her in her current harem.
Should these does have fawns, the fawns join the dominant stag in the new harem.
Afterwards, the herd resumes as normal.

Doe aggression:
Aggression between does is rare within an established harem - though can be common place when a new doe is integrating into an existing harem, with does using shunning behavior until the dominant doe decides to stop.
However, does may opt to drive away does from other harems from food resources when they have fawns, ensuring that their young get to eat first.
This is displayed by using their bodies to block the other does from the food resource, and aggressively shaking their heads.
Other does that do not back down - especially those that also have fawns - may opt to begin a short fight, ending only when one of them reaches half health or less.
The dominant doe from each harem is usually the one to intervene and move other does on, preferring to avoid these quick fights where possible.
 
Cross-Species Interaction
Styracosaurus herd alongside Albertaceratops, Pachyrhinosaurus and Psittacosaurus. They will opt to defend these species if attacked - permitting them to join the defensive formation (or shelter behind it), or up to the active engagement limit of 4 defenders of any species (including the defended individual).
Styracosaurus have no tolerance for other herbivores they do not group with, and are quick to protect food sources for the wider ceratopsian herd if they have a lot of mouths to feed.
These challenges over food begin with full herds moving in front of the claimed food resource and aggressive calling at least three times to the approaching herbivores. They utilise their bodies to block access to the food, and shake their heads fiercely.
The herd will begin to move forward slowly, trying to drive the other herbivores away without escalating into a fight. If successful and the other herbivores leave, Styracosaurus relax and go back to eating.
If they do not, and a battle ensues, all members of the herd can engage in the challenge over food.
Does primarily form a defensive line around the food bush and do not break formation - only moving as far as 1 body length forward to land a hit, before returning to the formation.
4 active defenders charge around the outside of the formation - usually all stags, including the dominant stag, if available - and chase down their opponents to land hits, utilising their speed and agility to dart away in time for another member to land another, preferring to use "hit and run" tactics to wear down their opponents.
This battle lasts until one member reaches deathscars - this forfeits the challenge for the entire herd, and forces them to give up and move on.
If the other herbivores forfeit and leave, Styracosaurus do not chase them down to finish them off. Killing their opponents is not the intention of the challenge - only to drive them away from their food.
Styracosaurus avoid conflict with Eotriceratops, Apatosaurus, Ampelosaurus and Argentinosaurus. They do not begin food challenges with these species.
 
Predator Reaction
Styracosaurus flee from pairs of Apex carnivores, only defending themselves if cornered or out of stamina.
Styracosaurus are a stubborn species, but also relatively nervous in the presence of multiple carnivores - or a very large carnivore threat.
The sight of any carnivore is enough to draw Styracosaurus to begin aggressively calling and waving their heads fiercely, hoping to drive away the predators before they attack.
Daspletosaurus causes a much higher fear response in Styracosaurus - prompting the herd to pace, and emit more fear calls than aggressive calls.
They do not chase down or initiate combat with Daspletosaurus - but will defend if hunted or attacked.
If migrating near Daspletosaurus, they opt to go around these carnivores where possible.
If these aggressive displays are not enough to deter carnivores away - Styracosaurus bulls may begin mock charges at the predators - stopping just in front of them, or darting out of the way at the last minute, careful not to land an attack accidently.
This may only be done if the predator is within 10 body lengths to the herd. Predators within LOS but a reasonable distance away do not get charged unless they are threateningly close.
Styracosaurus do not approach the predator to close the distance.
If, after 2 mock charges, the carnivores do not leave 2 body lengths of space between themselves and the herd, Styracosaurus can immediately start an engagement against them.
When an engagement starts, the majority of the herd band together in a defensive formation, building a formidable wall with babies and injured individuals put behind them.
They only move as far as one body length forward to land a hit when the attacker comes close, before rejoining the formation.
Up to 4 defenders/attackers participate outside of the defensive circle - typically always stags if available, including the dominant stag - becoming "active" engagers that charge around outside the circle, and chase down the threat to land hits.
These defenders opt to use "hit and run" tactics, charging forward to land a blow before darting away before the predator can catch them, often in unison with other defenders.
These defenders cannot swap out once they are set. They are always stags, and only does if there are not enough stags to make up the 4 defenders.
If the predator forfeits, these 4 active defenders can chase down the predator until it leaves at least 10 body lengths of distance between itself and the herd.
If there are 4 or less Styracosaurus in a herd, and all members of the group are active defenders, they may not chase predators who have forfeited for more than 5 bodylengths.
 
✦ Mixed Species Protection in times of danger
When traveling alongside Pachyrhinosaurus and Albertaceratops, Styracosaurus instinctively fall into a defensive formation when predators appear within 10 body lengths of themselves. They press shoulder to shoulder with their allies to form a defensive circle or line.
Any individual separated from the herd is dangerously vulnerable. These stragglers act on pure instinct, driven by a single purpose: reach the herd. When a predator takes interest, the separated flee relentlessly toward the safety of the formation, ignoring all else.
In times of danger, Pachyrhinosaurus, Albertaceratops, and Styracosaurus share a rare moment of a unified herd mindset. When threatened by predation, they respond as one, all movement and effort focused on regrouping and restoring the safety of the herds defensive formation.
A targeted individual may attempt to outrun the threat, but if cornered or forced into close quarters, it will lash out with horn and bulk, fighting only long enough to break free and continue its retreat to the herd.
Up to 4 adult individuals from any species may patrol beyond the defensive ring. These sentinels charge, chase, and aggressively drive predators away, pushing them back up to ten body lengths from the formation. The circle is never willingly broken and is only abandoned if a herd member falls.
Psittacosaurus, while valiant sentries, do not partake in engagements and seek shelter behind the defensive formation.
Example Radius for Aggression Towards Carnivores
 
Bild
Courtship & Parenthood
When the herd is stopped in one area for some time, male Styracosaurus begin to initiate courtship. They do this by finding an open, visible space and making loud calls, while scratching their horns at the surroundings, trying to attract the attention of females.
Stags begin their typical sparring matches to try and drive some interest from the does in their harem. 
When a stag has no potential sparring partners, he may turn this display of strength towards trees or rocks - charging and headbutting them to show off his prowess.
Even stags that lose sparring matches can draw out attention from their does - the excitement of seeing fighting can cause females to want to nest.
Unclaimed does with no harem approach a stag and call affectionately to him after observing the bullfights, hoping to be accepted into his harem. Stags usually always accept - but sometimes, if a harem has at least 5 does already, the dominant doe can become selective, and showcase her displeasure by aggressive calling at the potential new addition.
Stags may opt to ignore this behavior from the dominant doe and still accept the new doe - but such a decision prompts the dominant doe and all other does supporting her, to shun their stag for a while, in what can only be described as sulking.
Does always settle down after some time, but only when the dominant doe decides she is ready to accept the new member.
Some stags may pay heed to the dominant doe's displeasure, and reject the new doe, forcing her to approach another stag in hopes for acceptance.
Once a doe is suitably wooed or impressed, she approaches the stag in her harem to affectionate call, shaking her head and walking her body closely alongside his to signify her interest. Stags then respond affectionately in kind.
The dominant doe  leads the harem to a suitable place to nest - this can be alongside other harems, or other species in the group if she so decides.
Mothers are very protective of their fawns while they are young, but tolerate the presence of fellow does and their young from the same harem. 
This tolerance is not always extended to the stag leading the harem, however, if he is deemed to be inexperienced or too aggressive for fragile fawns.
Fathers enjoy interacting with their young - when they are permitted to - and forge bonds with them. Their influence on childrearing is slim in the early stages, but holds more weight as fawns age - especially with their sons.
Fathers tend to go more gently on their young sons when they begin practising for bullfights, but are happy to offer them the challenge.
Once fawns reach maturity, they become fully part of the herd. Mothers willingly expel their fawns outside of the harem, but happily socialize with them at other times. Daughters are expected to join other harems within the wider herd, while sons are expected to form their own.
Most does happily accept orphans and adopt them like one of their own, regardless of the age of their current young. After watching their does' affectionate behavior to the new baby, stags willingly accept these orphans as part of their own family.
 
Elderly & End of Life
As they reach old age, arthritis, old wounds, broken bones and horns begin to take their toll on elderly Styracosaurus bodies. They lose some of the shine and brightness of color in their scales, and gradually become slower, falling behind during migrations.
Elderly stags struggle to gather enough strength to best younger males in bullfights, and find themselves often forced to withdraw from fights soon after they begin.
The dominant stag of the herd loses interest in claiming does, and naturally ends up forced to withdraw from his leadership position.
Elderly Styracosaurus often have memory issues, forgetting common migration routes or sometimes even individuals. This behavior can be alarming and frightening for both the Styracosaurus experiencing it, and the - often close relative - seemingly forgotten by them.
 
Notes
If there are 4 or less Styracosaurus in a herd, and all members of the group are active defenders, they may not chase predators who have forfeited for more than 5 bodylengths.

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 2800
Adjusted Stats:
- Combat weight increased to 2800 from 2200
- Health increased to 700 from 600
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 11.01.2025 18:27
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 22:38
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
✦ Riparia Differences
In Riparia, Styracosaurus can travel anywhere on the map, but have designated courtship and nesting grounds.
Profile - Quick View
Styracosaurus are Medium Cathemeral Terrestrial Herbivores.
Styracosaurus can group as unlimited sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees. They can group with (and defend): Albertaceratops, Pachyrhinosaurus, Psittacosaurus.
Styracosaurus are tolerant to species within their ceratopsian herd, but aggressive to other species.
Styracosaurus can have up to 4 in an engagement actively charging around to land hits, while the rest of the herd takes a defensive formation in unlimited numbers.
Styracosaurus flees from pairs of Apex carnivores.
Styracosaurus group in unlimited numbers to form a herd. The herd is broken down into smaller groups - harems - lead by a single male each, with his females and their offspring. The herd is lead by a dominant male, who is the male with the largest harem and controls the direction and overall decisions for the group as a whole.
Styracosaurus are aggressive and perform mock charges at carnivore threats to try and push them away from others in the herd. If carnivores ignore these threats, Styracosaurus can begin an attack.
Styracosaurus form a defensive formation when hunted, with up to 4 individuals charging around outside of this formation to chase down and land hits on the attackers. These 4 individuals often chase down fleeing or forfeiting carnivores as well - though never further than 10 body lengths of the herd.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 31.01.2026 16:37
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 24.03.2026 01:39
Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Styracosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic, Vita Gynandromorph, DR Piebald Appaloosa, DR Leucistic Quagga Mutation, DR Piebald Tapir, DR Melanistic, DR Albino Oryx
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

This will be formatted in the correct place when the new profile releases!