Metriacanthosaurus
    "Metri"
Metriacanthosaurus roamed during the Late Jurassic period and had a preference for coastal environments. Their striking, vibrant coloration aids in courting and serves as a warning to any potential predators who roam Riparia and Gondwa. With poisonous scales covering their entire body, making a meal of this nocturnal carnivore is a risk which may not be worth taking.

Written by Dynasty Realism
Photo: Byuul
Profile inspired by Gila Monsters, Poison Dart Frogs, Shoebill Storks, and creative liberty.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 01.04.2026 02:02
Overview
Bild
Medium Nocturnal Terrestrial Carnivore
Metriacanthosaurus form strong pairbonds.
Metriacanthosaurus are nomadic.
Metriacanthosaurus have a (tolerant nature towards other species and aggressive nature towards their own kind.
Metriacanthosaurus are scavengers, and may scavenge from corpses freely.
Metriacanthosaurus cannibalize albino individuals, and tolerate melanistic individuals; although melanistic individuals are viewed as weak.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Metricanthosaurus include:
Albino, IoAR Albino, Melanistic and IoAR Black Leopard
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
2 Sub/Adults consisting of a mated pair or related siblings.
3 Offspring (nesting multipliers may be used to increase this number)
Metriacanthosaurus does not adopt.

This group is known as a quiver.
Metriacanthosaurus may form dispersal groups of 2.
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 2 Metriacanthosaurus may enter an engagement.
Metriacanthosaurus do not flee from anything, but will avoid Apex tier carnivores.
Metriacanthosaurus may hunt up to Large.
Adolescent Metriacanthosaurus do not participate in engagements.

Preferred Prey
Metriacanthosaurus target other Metriacanthosaurus before any other dinosaurs in their line of sight. If they are adult, they will challenge them; if they are adolescent, they will eat them.
Then, Metriacanthosaurus target Struthiomimus, Citipati, Utah, and Kelenken.
Then, Metriacanthosaurus target adolescent and below Therizinosaurus.
If none of these options are within LOS, Metriacanthosaurus may hunt any other species up to Large.
Metriacanthosaurus may cannibalize other Metriacanthosaurus of Adolescent or below.
Offspring raised by a mated pair must flee the POI before their parents notice they have reached sub-adulthood.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 3 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 2 hour.
Metriacanthosaurus nest in swamp environments, along the coastline, or in caves. They build their nest out of reeds, roots and branches.
Metriacanthosaurus may form same-sex pairs, but may not nest and do not adopt.

Physical Dimorphism
Metriacanthosaurus has physical dimorphism.
This profile does not have high T or low T individuals.
♀️ Female Metriacanthosaurus are slightly smaller than males and do not have a dewlap, but have spines down their back.
Suitable subspecies include: Latronemus
♂️ Male Metriacanthosaurus are bigger than females and have a dewlap.
Suitable subspecies include: Parkeri, Circumspectus
Physical dimorphism for Metriacanthosaurus is mandatory.
 
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Metricanthosaurus offspring, called polliwogs, are quiet and unassuming from the moment they hatch.
Within moments, these hatchlings are able to walk and are mostly self-sufficient, not requiring heavy parental guidance.
Hungry once they hatch, polliwogs begin to eat - their first meal being regurgitated mushrooms from their mother.
Polliwogs instinctively tumble from the nest the moment they hear their parents footsteps begin to move away; guided by instinct to trail after them.
At Juvenile, polliwogs are more aware of their surroundings and regard their environment with light curiosity. Sniffing and inspecting new objects around them, some polliwogs may become distracted and temporarily lose their parents.
This is especially dangerous for the smallest siblings, who come to learn quick where they stand with their siblings.
At this age, polliwogs begin to establish a hierarchy amongst themselves. Larger polliwogs shove and nip at their siblings to push them off food.
A hungry polliwog will take advantage of a smaller sibling who lags behind, attempting to turn it into a meal. The rate of success depends entirely on if the parents intervene.
Polliwogs who are corrected do stop this behavior - only attempting again if it feels its parents cannot see.
Successful polliwogs may be rewarded with the meal - but equally, may be shoved off the kill by their own parents who eat it for themselves!
Properly fed offspring learn quickly that parents are intolerant of them while eating, discovering that the hierarchy extends past their siblings with their parents at the top.
Only once the parents have finished eating do polliwogs creep towards the meal, picking off small shreds of meat and gathering parts in their claws, attempting to feed themselves subtly.
Herds and carnivore packs are often observed at a distance with extreme curiosity, sometimes causing a distracted polliwog to fall behind.
When their parents take interest in hunting, polliwogs distance themselves from their parents to observe them from a safe spot and mimic their actions on the nearest opponent - typically their siblings.
At Adolescent, a polliwog’s scales begin to change. Vibrant coloring becomes unmistakable, and serves as the first sign that the young Metricanthosaurus has become poisonous.
This is due to toxin provided by the variety of mushrooms their parents have led them to. Polliwogs with the brightest colors may have additionally been fed other Metricanthosaurus.
Exhibiting increased independence and no longer as eager to follow their parents, they begin to wander away for periods of time, seeking tiny and small creatures in an attempt to hunt.
To assist with this burst of independence, parents no longer tolerate them eating from their meals, nipping at polliwogs if they attempt to feed.
With the disinterest and lack of care their parents offer them, some polliwogs even disperse at this age.
By Sub-Adult, young Metricanthosaurus risks cannibalization remaining within its parents’ vicinity. They quietly slink off, unwilling to attract the attention of their parents.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned polliwogs take a moment to orient themselves, listening for the telling footsteps of their parents. Hearing none, these hatchlings follow their noses in hopes of the scent of a fresh kill.
If lucky, the hatchling will attempt to scavenge from a body unnoticed.
Without the security of parents, polliwogs prioritize concealing themselves in shrubs or tall grass, though a bold polliwog may trail other creatures from a distance out of curiosity.
By Juvenile, orphaned polliwogs are openly curious about their environment. Unusual objects are inspected thoroughly, and other creatures are trailed for short periods of time - often until they are spotted and aggressed away.
At Adolescent, polliwogs begin to take interest in faster moving creatures, attempting to catch anything of Small tier and below for prey.
Once they reach Sub-Adult, orphaned Metriacanthosaurus may display lesser skills with hunting, depending on the success rates they made whilst growing. Parented Metriacanthosaurus have the benefit of observing successful hunts from adults - something that helps hone their own hunting skills.
Bild
Metriacanthosaurus are usually solitary by nature, and comfortable on their own.
While Metriacanthosaurus do not rely on other individuals, they may tolerate one other to travel with them for the purpose of convenience or courting.
Any additional Metriacanthosaurus are viewed as potential meals.
Metriacanthosaurus has an extremely poisonous hide covering its body which serves both as a deterrent and a defence mechanism.
While immune to their own species' poison, most species find them too toxic to consume and suffer side-effects after eating from a Metriacanthosaurus corpse. Only Compsognathus, Ceratosaurus, Maip, Allosaurus, Deinosuchus, Quetzalcoatlus, Megalania, Rhamphorhynchus and other Metricanthosaurus may successfully feed from a Metricanthosaurus body.
Without maintenance of these toxins, Metricanthosaurus begin to fade in color. These toxins are primarily replenished by consuming a large amount of mushrooms, though sometimes can be substituted by feeding from a Metricanthosaurus corpse.
Metriacanthosaurus’ most identifiable feature is their bright scales, which serves as a warning for predators. The brighter an individual, the more poisonous they appear to be. These warning colors are a concept known as aposematism.
Due to Metriacanthosaurus diet, their mouths quickly become toxic with the amount of mushrooms, noxious meat, and carrion they consume. Depending on the diet of a Metriacanthosaurus, their bites may inflict others with a toxin which can build quickly.
Metriacanthosaurus is tolerant and extremely observant, unnervingly staring down other creatures. They remain still, moving their heads only if necessary. The only time they do not is if they come across an Apex carnivore.
Carnivore groups are of interest to Metriacanthosaurus, who will mimic their  movements at a distance while the group hunts.
Metriacanthosaurus take specific interest in feathered creatures. Should one pass their field of view, their attention is grabbed immediately, crouching quickly as their head swivels in the creature's direction.
Feathered species attract such great attention in Metriacanthosaurus that some may even forget their surroundings, fixated only on its potential prey.
Metriacanthosaurus particularly enjoy eating the young of these feathered species, though know their limitations as well.
Should Metriacanthosaurus find attended Therizinosaurus young, Metriacanthosaurus may fixate on this in hopes that the offspring wanders off - though will flee if aggressed by an adult.
A visible Metriacanthosaurus typically poses no threat. When hunting, Metriacanthosaurus attempt to conceal themselves and bide their time stalking their prey as silent, patient hunters.
Metriacanthosaurus favor coastal islands, swamps and caves - and are most comfortable in areas with dense coverage.
Metriacanthosaurus only hunt at night, keeping to dark and shadowed areas where their bright coloring is less evident and they are able to creep up on their prey.
During the dry season, Metriacanthosaurus prefer to remain in caves throughout the day, as their scales are sensitive to the dry heat.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Metriacanthosaurus are sluggish through the day when exposed to the sunlight for too long, and spend time seeking out cooler caves or shaded areas to rest in.
Dry season is especially brutal, and lots of Metriacanthosaurus seek caves with a water source where they can soak their scales in an attempt to cool themselves as they rest.
If there are no caves it can reach in the area, Metriacanthosaurus instead favors dense underbrush to shade itself.
 
Bild
✦ Quiver
A quiver consists of either a pair of siblings, or a mated pair and their offspring. 
Outside of this, Metriacanthosaurus do not tolerate others of their own species and will cannibalize younger individuals, or begin a territory challenge.
Between a mated pair, they are seen closest together when they have offspring, finding it easier to defend their polliwogs if they are attacked.
Otherwise, a mated pair without offspring may remain together out of the convenience of having a partner. They distance themselves from each other, traveling together loosely and often sleeping in their own spots.
Low chattering can be heard between the two on occasion, though these pairs hardly look as though they acknowledge the other’s presence until they find it necessary to hunt together.
Only then does their dynamic swiftly alter, moving together and becoming highly aware of each other's position.
If one Metriacanthosaurus in mated pair is attacked, the other rushes to defend the other, preferring to remain with their companion.
Sibling pairs remain highly aloof of each other while traveling, keeping to themselves unless they spot potential prey.
Oftentimes, sibling pairs exhibit a higher success rate in taking down prey, having watched their parents and understanding the roles each other can play.
Metriacanthosaurus siblings often still feel the need to compete with each other even in adulthood.
When attacked, some siblings defend the other quickly, though others may hang back, taking a moment to decide if it is worth the risk.
At any time, these groupings may dissolve. Failure to raise clutches or repeatedly failed hunts are common factors that cause these pairs to break apart.
Siblings may separate to seek out a mate, traveling together to the courting grounds before ungrouping once they arrive.
✦ Solitary Behavior
Metriacanthosaurus are well adept to living solitary lives and sometimes opt to remain on their own throughout their lives.
Metriacanthosaurus who have previously been part of a quiver whose dynamic was unsuccessful for any reason may grow a distaste for other Metriacanthosaurus.
Solitary Metriacanthosaurus most commonly trail groups of carnivores or herds at a distance.
Carnivore groups typically draw the most attention to a solitary Metriacanthosaurus ,as these are the easiest opportunity to scavenge from a meal.
If aggressed by a group of carnivores outside their hunting limit, Metriacanthosaurus will move on to seek other opportunities.
Once interested in hunting, the once noticeable and bright Metriacanthosaurus will seemingly disappear, weaving through coverage and shadowed areas to stalk its prey.
Metriacanthosaurus are unable to continue stalking during the day, preferring instead to rest and seek out its interest once night comes again.
✦ Mutated Individuals
Albino Metriacanthosaurus are restricted to a solitary life, though do not immediately fear other Metriacanthosaurus and learn over time that all other Metriacanthosaurus are aggressive - sometimes prompting them to be the first to aggress another.
At times, individuals who do not have any bright coloring may be more successful in hunting without having to conceal themselves as effectively.
Metriacanthosaurus who are Albino may discover quickly that they are hunted more often, resulting in a more flighty individual.
Metricanthosaurus with mutations do not struggle with toxin output in the slightest, even if their scale color alludes otherwise.
Melanistic Metricanthosaurus are treated the same as any other individuals by other Metricanthosaurus, but are assumed to have extremely limited amounts of toxin, due to their lack of colors.
Bild
Metriacanthosaurus view other Metriacanthosaurus within their line of sight as a potential meal, or simply a hinderance. Outside of their courting grounds, they either cannibalize (if the other is Adolescent or below), or begin a territory challenge with the other.
The only time they are not seen exhibiting this behavior is in their own quiver.
Metriacanthosaurus may either challenge or hunt other Metriacanthosaurus within line of sight, but this must be done first before attempting to hunt other creatures.
✦ Territory Challenges
If another adult Metriacanthosaurus is within line of sight and not within their quiver, the individual's first instinct is to intimidate the other.
Pacing from side to side or circling, Metriacanthosaurus show off their colorful scales, sniffing the air and lifting their head in a show of confidence. Males favor shaking their heads as well - especially those with a brightly colored dewlap.
A duller Metriacanthosaurus is often intimidated by a brighter, more poisonous individual, and may choose to flee rather than fight for the right to stay in the POI.
If neither flee from the sight of the other, a territory challenge begins.
If the challenge is accepted - the fight is quick and brutal, tearing into each other and clawing at each other's sides with vicious swipes and bites.
The winning Metriacanthosaurus does not have to remain in the POI, but the losing Metriacanthosaurus must move on from the POI.
✦ Cannibalization
Metriacanthosaurus first turn to Adolescent or below Metriacanthosaurus or Albino Metriacanthosaurus before looking for other meal options.
Unlike most carnivores, Metriacanthosaurus is immune to the effects of the poison scales and toxic meat of their own kind, and may happily consume the body of any fallen Metriacanthosaurus - even their own pair if they are able.
Eating other Metricanthosaurus may even bolster their own toxins, resulting in a more brightly colored individual.
Bild
✦ Therizinosaurus
Metriacanthosaurus take the most interest in Therizinosaurus.
This large feathered creature - while intimidating up close - is an almost irresistible sight to Metriacanthosaurus, especially if it has offspring.
Metriacanthosaurus trails these species from a safe distance, out of reach of their long claws.
Metriacanthosaurus may even mimic the calls of these large theropod and strut about slowly in the same manner.
Fascination in these species can turn into a desire to hunt. Metriacanthosaurus, when interested in hunting Therizinosaurus, fall quiet, using any cover available and wait patiently until any offspring fall behind.
✦ Other Species
Metriacanthosaurus are tolerant of all other species and rarely show any sort of aggression towards other creatures.
Metriacanthosaurus have a high tolerance for Rhamphorhynchus and allow these scavengers to feed from their kills.
Metriacanthosaurus also find these little creatures useful for cleaning their scales and allow them in their space to do so
An especially noisy Rhamphorhynchus may be grumbled at - or in some cases, hissed away.
Metriacanthosaurus do not tolerate other scavengers.
Bild
2 sub/adult Metriacanthosaurus may participate in a hunt and hunt up to Large tier.
Adolescent Metriacanthosaurus do not participate in their parents hunts.
If their parents are not hunting, adolescents may begin a hunt of their own on small or tiny tiers.
Metriacanthosaurus always target other Metriacanthosaurus (if smaller than them, or Albino) in line of sight before any other species.
Metriacanthosaurus then target Struthiomimus, Citipati, Utahraptor, and Kelenken.
Unattended Adolescent and below Therizinosaurus are selected if these other options are unavailable.
Metriacanthosaurus take interest in any feathered creatures, typically attempting to hunt these species over other prey if available and within reach.
Metriacanthosaurus are quiet observers when interested in hunting and will stare at other species from a distance, remaining motionless even if noticed.
Metriacanthosaurus are patient, silent stalkers. Lowering their bodies to the ground once spotting potential prey, they pick through foliage and terrain to conceal themselves as their target’s back is turned.
If the prey turns and unintentionally faces Metriacanthosaurus’ direction, Metriacanthosaurus will freeze, only continuing their approach once their prey turns away again.
Metriacanthosaurus begins the hunt once they feel they are close enough to burst from their cover and surprise their prey - or if their prey unintentionally comes close to the Metriacanthosaurus.
Metriacanthosaurus in a pair are coordinated hunters and sometimes stalk prey from different angles in an attempt to catch their prey off guard from multiple directions.
A hunt always begins silently, increasing in noise from the Metriacanthosaurus as the engagement progresses.
Metriacanthosaurus are not endurance hunters and will not chase prey through more than two POIs to catch it - much preferring to slowly stalk until they find the right moment to pounce.
If spotting Citipati or Struthiomimus beginning to nest, Metriacanthosaurus may linger around the area until eggs begin to hatch. Rushing forward, they attempt to scare the parents away in hopes that the offspring imprint on Metriacanthosaurus, who then lure them from the nest with soft chatter, before selecting one to kill.
Metriacanthosaurus sometimes remain hidden, making low chuffs from their hiding places if they spot offspring, mimicking the sound of small critters in the hopes of an overly curious young approaching their hiding spot.
Bild
✦ Courtship
When interested in courtship, Metriacanthosaurus will travel to Mudflats or Sharptooth Marsh.
Metriacanthosaurus become tolerant of other Metriacanthosaurus here and do not challenge or hunt other Metriacanthosaurus within the courtship grounds.
All Metriacanthosaurus must enter the courtship grounds ungrouped.
If already pairbonded, Metriacanthosaurus will not enter the courtship grounds.
Metriacanthosaurus who have left their pairbond for any reason may come back to the courting grounds to seek a new mate.
Metriacanthosaurus who arrive at Mudflats carry mushrooms to assist them in finding a mate. This substance is highly prized by others, and serves as an attractive gift to a potential partner.
Extremely colorful Metriacanthosaurus are the most desired as mates, and often attract the most attention at the courting grounds.
Upon spotting a potential mate, Metriacanthosaurus begin to bob their heads up and down at the other, clasping their mushroom between their teeth. Once they feel they’ve grabbed the attention of a potential mate, they spread their arms in a wide display, lifting their heads upwards and shaking their bodies.
An interested Metriacanthosaurus returns these gestures, before both individuals pick up their gifts and begin their inspection of each other, moving slowly in a circle. Halfway through the circle, both Metriacanthosaurus rotate and move the opposite way, sure to flash their colors on both sides.
Once they have inspected each other's colors, both Metriacanthosaurus move closer to each other and place the mushroom at their feet, and begin a dance of mimicry. This dance is performed with soft chirps and upwards shakes of their heads.
Once the dance is complete, they chatter softly to each other, and leave the courtship grounds to find a place to nest.
Metriacanthosaurus can be distracted by a flashier, more colorful individual and are able to walk away from the courtship process in an attempt to court another instead.
If two Metriacanthosaurus are interested in the same individual, they engage in a short battle - beginning with one aggressive call, before quickly running at each other and biting into each other's sides.
This fight will only take place during the first step of courtship. Those that have begun their courtship dance will not be fought over.
The individual that reaches half health first quickly flees from the engagement and is not chased by the winner - who is instead eager to continue the courtship.
 
✦ Nesting
After courting, Metriacanthosaurus seek out secluded places along coastlands, swamps, or in caves to build their nests.
If in an existing pairbond, Metriacanthosaurus do not travel to the courtship grounds again and instead, the female leads her pair to a suitable spot to build her nest. This is the only indication her partner will receive when interested in nesting.
Females place seemingly excessive amounts of foliage on and around the nest in order to protect and shield their young.
The male attempts to assist with the nest building process, often bringing reeds or branches for the female to arrange, or mushrooms to offer the female.
In preparation for hatchlings, female Metriacanthosaurus consume an excessive amount of mushrooms to regurgitate later.
Once the nest is complete, the female remains on top of the nest until their eggs begin to hatch.
Once polliwogs emerge from their eggs, the female leaves the nest, only calling once or twice to each hatchling before leaving her nesting site.
✦ Parenthood
Metriacanthosaurus parents take part in rearing their young equally and immediately search for mushrooms their hatchlings can consume, beginning to condition the scales to the poisonous coat they will have later in life.
Beyond the initial offering of mushrooms, Metriacanthosaurus are typically uninvolved parents throughout the rest of raising their offspring - only acting if necessary.
Parents expect polliwogs to follow them almost immediately, and rarely look back to ensure their offspring are close by.
Those that linger are at risk of being eaten by their larger siblings. 
Parents who witness this behavior will intervene. However, offspring that are successful in killing a sibling without them witnessing it are not scolded, and parents do not seem to mourn the fallen polliwog.
While bullying is common between siblings, this is rarely stopped - and sometimes even encouraged. Parents will only intervene if their young is nearing deathscars.
Throughout their lives, parents seek out mushrooms to eat by habit, a behavior that their offspring quickly pick up on and mimic. Whilst this is not traditional teaching, it serves a valuable learning opportunity for their young.
Metriacanthosaurus parents do not show affection to their offspring, and do not allow them to eat from their kills while they are eating.
However, Metriacanthosaurus may still defend any offspring they have that are Adolescent and below from threats. The older their offspring is, the less likely some parents are to defend these offspring.
Only once parents have eaten do they allow polliwogs below Adolescent to feed from their meals. Offspring of Adolescent and above are aggressed and nipped off the meal if they attempt to eat.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Once Adolescent, Metriacanthosaurus young begin to distance themselves from their parents as they are pushed off meals and mostly ignored.
Some Metriacanthosaurus will completely disperse from their parents at this age and leave the vicinity their parents reside in. This does not seem to affect their parents, who by this stage are indifferent - or perhaps even irritated - by their offspring's presence.
By Sub Adult, offspring must disperse quietly in an attempt to disappear. Any form of overstaying results in their own parents challenging them viciously from the territory.
Bild
Metricanthosaurus hunt, court, and nest, all the way through their elder years.
If an individual does not have a consistent mate, they may stop courting entirely, and prefer to live the end of their lives solitary.
As Metricanthosaurus age, the toxin in their flesh begins to degrade. This often results in a much lower quality of life for a Metricanthosaurus, as well as its intensely bright colors beginning to fade.
Metricanthosaurus struggling with their toxins fading may dehydrate faster than usual, and may easily bake in an intense Dry Season afternoon, if not properly sheltered.
When a Metricanthosaurus female chooses to have her final clutch - with a much lower toxin level unable to provide the sufficient level of toxin for her offspring - she may attempt to cannibalize her mate.
Many males, especially those that have been paired with the female for most of their lives, willingly accept this, and do not fight back. Males who do not simply flee from the POI entirely.
In the case she is unable to consume her former mate, Metricanthosaurus females will only lay one egg in her final clutch.
When the offspring is born, she will raise them alone.
✦ Death
Metricanthosaurus often die uncharacteristically in open areas, to heat, overexertion, or otherwise. Despite the fact their scales have gone dull from lack of the toxin in their systems, consuming these bodies has the same effects for any species unable to digest their toxins.
When an elderly female is raising her final clutch, she will lay down in the open and pass away. At this point, her young will feed from her body, to receive the final dosage of venom their young bodies need to support their growth into adulthood.
Bild
Metricanthosaurus bodies may only be fed from by Compsognathus, Ceratosaurus, Maip, Allosaurus, Meglania, Rhamphorhynchus, Deinosuchus, Quetzalcoatlus, and other Metricanthosaurus without averse side effects. Review this resource for more information: ⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries
Metriacanthosaurus may cannibalize Albino of any age, or others of Adolescent or below. Females laying their last clutch may attempt to cannibalize their mate.
Metricanthosaurus may only hunt other players if 35% or below hunger in the courtship grounds.
 
Bild
During any engagement, Metriacanthosaurus may only use 1 heal call throughout the entire group per engagement.
Heal calls may only be used during or immediately after an engagement.
RULE EXEMPTIONS
For all species excluding Metricanthosaurus, Compsognathus, Ceratosaurus, Maip, Allosaurus, Deinosuchus, Quetzalcoatlus, Rhamphornhychus and Megalania, Metriacanthosaurus bodies may be ignored in favor of hunting a different species (4.4).
After a territory challenge, Metricanthosaurus is not required to stay 30 minutes in the same POI (6.7.2.3).
Metricanthosaurus males who have been cannibalized by females for their final clutch may take an egg from the final clutch.
 
Preferred POIs
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 01.04.2026 02:10
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Metricanthosaurus are Medium Nocturnal Terrestrial Carnivores.
Metricanthosaurus can group up to 2 sub/adults, 3 offspring. Metricanthosaurus do not adopt.
Metricanthosaurus are tolerant towards other species, but aggressive towards their own kind.
Metricanthosaurus can have up to 2 in an engagement.
Metricanthosaurus may hunt up to Large tier. Metricanthosaurus may scavenge. Metricanthosaurus avoid Apex tier carnivores.
Metricanthosaurus are poisonous, meaning that feeding from their flesh can result in strong sickness and even death in carnivores who are not able to break down their toxins.
In order to maintain these toxins, Metricanthosaurus consume a variety of mushrooms and may feed from other Metricanthosaurus.
Metricanthosaurus with the brightest scales are regarded as the most toxic individuals, and are typically avoided by other Metricanthosaurus and predators.
Metricanthosaurus may overheat or dry out, especially during the day in Dry Season, so as a result must find shaded areas, caves, deep foliage, or shallow water to rest in.
Metricanthosaurus will always challenge other Metricanthosaurus before hunting any other species in the POI.
Metricanthosaurus have a high interest in Therizinosaurus, whom they always stalk from a distance.
At the end of their lives, for their last clutch, Metricanthosaurus females attempt to cannibalize their mate in order to produce her last set of eggs. Once offspring have hatched and grown, she dies, and her offspring feed from her corpse.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time: (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 3100
Adjusted Stats: - Jump force increased
 
Quick Links
Top
Growing up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Metritoxin
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?