Tenontosaurus
Tenontosaurus was a medium-sized herbivorous dinosaur that lived during the Early Cretaceous period, around 115 million years ago, in what is now North America. Growing up to 23 feet long, it had a long, sturdy tail used for balance and possibly defense. Tenontosaurus fed on low-lying vegetation and likely moved in herds for protection from predators like Deinonychus. Its mix of size, agility, and powerful tail made it a resilient herbivore in its environment.

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2025-Beyond

Authors: CocoCoffee and Ahaki
Photo: Butterbean
Profile inspired by paleontological speculation, horses, white-lipped peccary, rock hyrax, buffy-headed marmoset.

4_teno.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 14.06.2025 22:52
Overview
Details
Medium Cathermal Terrestrial Herbivore
Tenontosaurus form polyandrous bonds.
Tenontosaurus glades are territorial and claim medium territories. Tenontosaurus kindles are nomadic.
Tenontosaurus females have an aggressive nature. Males have a tolerant nature.
Tenontosaurus may group with: Bonapartenykus.
Males may defend Bonapartenykus, while females do not.
Albino and melanistic do not exist in Tenontosaurus. Tenontosaurus that display "blight" symptoms are shunned by the rest of the group.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Glade (Territorial group)
Unlimited Sub/Adults, consisting of 1 female known as the matriarch, female subordinates, and males.
Unlimited Offspring
This group does not adopt.
This group is known as a glade.

Kindle (Male-only & Adoptee group)
Unlimited Sub-Adult/Adults, consisting of males only.
No Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees
This group is known as a kindle.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Predator Reaction: Headstrong / Defensive
Up to 4 Tenontosaurus may enter into an engagement.
Females are headstrong, and may ignore an opponent’s forfeit. Males respect forfeits.
Females take priority in engagements. In the absence of enough females, males may engage. 
Adolescent females may participate in challenges, and do not count towards the engagement limit. They must flee after receiving 2 hits.
Tenontosaurus flee from 3+ Large carnivores and all Apex carnivores.
Matriarchs cull offspring under Sub-Adult that are not hers if discovered within her territory. No species timer is set when committing infanticide.

Preferred Diet
Tenontosaurus primarily eat roots, nuts, and leaves, but also eat berries and flowers. A varied diet is essential to their survival.
The matriarch ensures that unrelated males and young eat first.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 5 🥚﻿ per 4 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 3 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
The matriarch can nest with multiple males, but cannot exceed the egg limits. She may have split paternity in her nest if she wishes.
Subordinates may only nest with one male.
Tenontosaurus nest near cliffs, rocks and crevices between rocks. Their nests are constructed out of reeds, branches and roots.
Male tenontosaurus may form same-sex pairs. They may still accept female courtship advances.

Physical Dimorphism
♀️ Females are known as does, and are stockier and have a more pronounced facial ridge.
Suitable subspecies include: Smaugini, Djellali
♂️ Males are known as bucks, and are slimmer and smaller than females.
Suitable subspecies include: Ducani, Tilleti
Physical dimorphism for Tenontosaurus is mandatory.
 
Growing Up
Offspring Behavior
Baby Tenontosaurus - known as fawns - spend their first hours in tight-knit sleeping bunches, eagerly cleaned and kept warm by excited males.
One by one, once they have gained enough strength, fawns stand up and slowly begin exploring the nesting side, often stumbling as they learn to walk. Despite tumbling often, fawns are completely silent until Juvenile.
Fawns exhibit a natural curiosity; juveniles explore their surroundings in tight and clingy groups, supervised under the vigilant watch of their fathers, who they form deep bonds with.
Should a fawn find itself alone or stray too far from the rest of the group, it begins to cry out in distress and settles down on the ground, hoping to gain the attention of a nearby guardian to return it to its bundle of siblings.
Behavioral dimorphism does not begin to kick in with fawns until adolescence. Before then, both bucks and does treat each other similarly - usually cuddling for warmth and comfort at sleep periods.
All fawns enjoy short games of chase - a game that in turn helps to refine and strengthen their leg muscles and improve agility - and siblings take great joy in racing around with one another and any adults that might indulge them.
As they approach adolescence, brothers and sisters begin to create distance with one another. This separation is natural as temperaments differ with hormonal changes, and instinctively siblings start to find more enjoyment socializing with others of the same sex.
Brothers form closer and more enduring bonds, with bucks engaging in cooperative play, and mutual grooming, reminiscent of their more submissive temperaments.
Sisters, on the other hand, demonstrate looser and more competitive bonds, engaging in playful but more challenging activities, such as wrestling and practice battles -  games that enable females to test their strength and hone their skills with one another.
Towards the middle of adolescence during a peak of flooded hormones, does become restless. They kick and bite at nearby objects, bellowing loudly as their tempers fray. 
Fathers step in to correct these rowdy daughters with nips whenever they bellow, while the matriarch pushes them into joining patrols and challenges.
Bucks develop quite differently, and instead begin to show a much more nurturing and playful side. They loosely follow different adults in the glade, mimicking their actions and inviting them to play. In addition, they take great interest in presenting their fathers with gifts and dances.
Upon reaching Sub-Adult, does are permitted to remain in the glade if the matriarch deems them as submissive enough - especially unruly females are always pushed out quickly.
Bucks always stay in their glade - at least at first - and learn to care for new young. Eventually, they disperse to find a glade that they can breed in.
The matriarch sometimes becomes more irritated when she feels her sons have stayed for too long, and will chase them out if she decides they have overstayed their welcome.
Orphaned Behavior
After hatching, fawns reach for the comforting warmth of their clutchmates, before looking around for protection from a guardian.
Upon discovering their solitude, orphaned fawns begin to shriek in distress, and stagger to their feet to quickly search the area, desperate to try and find their family.
Should nobody answer their calls, a fawn returns to its hatching place, isolated and alone. It continues calling for parents that do not come, but eventually these calls quieten down until the fawn falls silent.
The absence of close-knit sibling bonds eventually causes an orphan to stray quietly from its birthplace, seeking companionship and food. If the hatchling finds another animal’s young, regardless of species, they quickly cling to the side of the other offspring, seeking to replace the absence of their siblings.
However, if met with aggression by their newly chosen siblings, they will flee.
Sadly, this can represent the end of a Tenontosaurus’ life if its newly chosen siblings happen to be of a carnivorous variety.
Tenontosaurus that are lucky enough to find willing surrogate siblings eventually disperse from them once they reach Sub-Adult, keen to find others of their species.
Those that are luckier still, and find other Tenontosaurus before this age, always switch to follow those instead.
General Behavior
Tenontosaurus are keen social herbivores that crave interaction with others of their kind. Tenontosaurus always prefer to join a glade or a kindle over interaction with any other species.
Despite their typically social nature, some Tenontosaurus prefer a solitary life. This is especially common when an orphaned fawn is unable to find other young or adoptive parents. Lacking socialization, these individuals actively avoid most other animals. They are much more skittish, and prefer to hide when faced with danger.
Tenontosaurus herbivores prefer a quiet atmosphere, and often nip or kick near members of their group that make loud noises for prolonged periods.
The Matriarch - the key figure in a glade grouping - heavily influences the temperament and behavior of a group. Different glades develop unique methods of communicating based on her behavior.
Tenontosaurus trample through the forest, digging in search of nutritious tubers. As this destructive species moves throughout their territories, new growth is given room to flourish. They are seed dispersers and play a vital role in the reproduction of many plants, as they scatter soil, roots, offshoots, and seeds.
They are seen grazing regularly, and will balance on smaller trees to eat their leaves, sometimes knocking over weaker ones.
Along both sides of the neck are two pungent scent glands, which they use to mark their territory and rub against other members of their glade, ensuring they smell similar. The odor of a glade is primarily made up of the matriarch's scent.
During the Dry Season’s hottest days, Tenontosaurus rolls in mud or submerge themselves in water to help regulate their temperature.

Blight
Tenontosaurus have a sickness specific to their species referred to as “blight”. The sickness causes their skin to slowly develop into a pale white, resembling albinos. They will heave, cough, and act somewhat erratically, distancing themselves from the herd as their bones weaken. The exact cause of blight is unknown, but those experiencing malnutrition or a diet of low variety are more susceptible. Instinctually, they will shun and exile those who are primarily white.
Social Interaction
Tenontosaurus form two different types of groups, based on gender. When a group contains females, the group becomes known as a glade, which is lead by one main female, known as the matriarch. When a group contains only males, the group is known as a kindle, with no overall leader.

THE MATRIARCH
The Matriarch is the most dominant female within a group and acts as the leader. She determines where the territory is, and how the group behaves.
The Matriarch allows more submissive does, known as subordinates, to remain in a glade, so long as they submit to her. She indicates that the bucks in their territory belong to her by investigating and showing dominance over the subordinates on a regular basis. Subordinates are subject to light bullying, and only permitted to eat last.
A Matriarch has a great deal of responsibility within her glade. She takes care to brush her scent against each member regularly with gentle shakes, and organizes patrols of the territory. She is also the deciding factor in handling adversaries.
Another responsibility of hers is ensuring that her territory can sustain the glade. She will aggressively expel members if the glade has grown too large, or opt to migrate/expand territory. 
The priority for expulsion is sons > subordinates > bucks.
Matriarchs learn that they must migrate semi-regularly to keep the glade healthy and maintain diet variety. While glades are territorial, matriarchs will organize the movement of the glade to a new territory when their current one can no longer sustain them.
If the matriarch encounters a stranger in her territory, the matriarch will stand up, posturing with her head held high before slamming her tail on the earth. She carefully smells and investigates the newcomer, becoming irritated if they do not submit. 
If the newcomer shows appropriate submission and she decides to accept them into the glade, the matriarch rubs her neck against them, covering them in her scent.
Newcomers that do not show submission are rejected, and chased out of the territory with angry growls and tail smacks.
Once the matriarch has accepted new subordinates or males, she rouses the rest of the glade to greet the new member of the group, before confidently guiding them along the perimeter of her territory, highlighting its bountiful resources.
Experienced matriarchs possess a keen understanding of their glade's capabilities and limitations, and base her decisions on them.
Younger matriarchs generally lack experience, occasionally becoming overly bold or timid in the face of danger, which can harm the glade in the process. Not yet equipped with the knowledge needed to properly protect her glade or create coordinated intimidation tactics, young matriarchs can make mistakes that can be costly for the glade. 
While young matriarchs generally strive to adapt to their responsibilities, shortcomings in care and coordination may arise if not learning is not quick.
The matriarch primarily spends time near the bucks, vigilantly guarding them and ensuring they stay within her territory. In the event she notices an unrelated buck attempting to leave the glade’s territory, she will attempt to herd and nip at the male incessantly, guiding him back to the others.
However, excessive force is never used, and ultimately some bucks will slip away despite this.
The matriarch will actively cull fawns that are not hers if discovered within the territory.
SUBORDINATES
Subordinates are other does within the glade. All subordinates must be submissive to the matriarch.
When attempting to join a glade, newcomers attempt to win the matriarch’s favor by lowering their heads and avoiding eye contact, careful to stay low to the ground, highlighting their submission.
If the Matriarch deems them to be suitably submissive, she will welcome the other female to live as a subordinate within her glade - though she is careful to keep an eye on the interactions the new female has with the bucks.
Subordinate females must accept this position in order to remain in the glade, or else leave to start a glade of their own. Plenty of does are content to remain as a subordinate indefinitely - despite their lower status, they gain safety and access to food, alongside socialization with others of their species.
Subordinates hold respect for the matriarch, and rely on her to keep the glade organized and safe.
Subordinates undertake the majority of responsibilities concerning territory maintenance. Because patrolling the territory can be arduous, subordinate does often work in pairs to increase coverage while ensuring mutual safety. Throughout their patrol of the territory's edge, does claw, kick and rub against trees and trunks, ensuring rivals or any other threats are aware of the danger that they would face if venturing further into the territory.
Through patrolling in these duos, subordinates may begin to form bonds. These bonds are built on respect for the other's behaviour rather than affection. Two does who have continuously maintained trust with each other may be more affectionate.
Upon arrival of a new doe, the current subordinates are cold initially and avoid contact - sometimes even nipping them away from food. Despite the coldness, the new female will be invited to patrol so they may observe her behavior. Subordinates may refuse to patrol with does they deem as incompetent or immature.
Subordinates bond easily with bucks, and happily engage with their playful antics. They especially spend time with males that have not gained the matriarch's favor.
In the matriarch's temporary absence, the most respected subordinates take on the task of organizing patrols.
Within a glade, the bonds between does are fragile and usually quick to break. This is due to their temperament and natural aggression, which - while serving as the main way they protect themselves - can also cause a hindrance to maintaining social relationships within the glade.
Subordinates fall victim to the outburst of another subordinate most often. Arguments can arise over decisions, sleeping spots, or food - and sometimes even over the company of a buck. Easily irritable, they become increasingly annoyed by their supposed companions if they feel they have been crossed too often.
Though vocally threatening, these arguments are generally harmless - a few swipes may be exchanged, but otherwise, any nearby buck quickly steps in to soothe the does.
Some more aggressive subordinates struggle to listen to reason, and hammer one another with harsher strikes. This usually requires the Matriarch to step in, or else does decide for themselves how far to take an argument.
MALES
Just like subordinates, male newcomers will lower their heads and avoid eye contact, careful to stay low to the ground, to showcase their submission to the matriarch.
Males are deeply parental and have a gentle nature compared to their female counterparts. They care for fawns regardless of relation.
Within kindles with other nomadic bucks, they happily accept and care for any orphaned Tenontosaurus they discover. They can be observed sometimes caring for similarly-sized babies of other species, but quickly stop caring for them once they notice the young are behaving oddly.
If there are no young to care for, bucks stick together and wander throughout the territory with the matriarch following behind them. They may aid in territory maintenance as they spread their scent throughout, visiting patrolling does and occasionally distracting them with play.
Bucks forge social connections within the glade. As the most gentle members of the glade, they address disagreements or internal conflicts that may arise - particularly those involving the Matriarch. They echo their loyalty to her at all times - unless she has proven to falter in her responsibilities to the glade.
In a glade, a buck's intervention and support given to a doe during an argument is highly beneficial, and often leads to a resolution or compromise that favors the supported individual. Maintaining harmony is crucial for the males, as newcomers or disruptive individuals could threaten the established routine.
The matriarch usually tolerates this behavior due to it benefiting her overall. However, if a buck shows too much interest in another doe, she may interrupt their interactions, not wanting her bucks to develop deep relationships with her subordinates.
If a dispute is too aggressive or rowdy, bucks tend not to dare come close and instead watch from the sidelines, prioritizing their own safety.
When a matriarch is overthrown, some bucks become deeply upset at the loss and attempt to follow her. This is swiftly intercepted by the new matriarch, who herds and nips at the males to attempt to keep them within her glade's territory. 
If they feel bonded to the old matriarch or are unhappy with the current glade, they sneak away during a rest period for the glade. Otherwise, some bucks are only upset momentarily if they find that the new matriarch is a better fit.
When attempting to leave a glade and caught by a matriarch, bucks put up a fuss momentarily, but are spooked back to the rest of the glade easily. They dislike direct confrontation, and will only sneak away instead of fighting against the matriarch.
They have a unique relationship with Bonapartenykus and act affectionately towards them, appreciating their helpful nest maintenance and grooming. Males may decide to defend Bonapartenykus that have integrated well into the glade, or ones they have formed an attachment to.
Aggressive Interaction
Overthrowing a Matriarch
If a stranger encroaches on another doe's domain with the desire to take her glade, she will approach the glade with her head held high, broadcasting loudly to draw the attention of the Matriarch.
The Matriarch, enraged by the intrusion, will greet the newcomer, and the pair will begin circling, letting out low, aggressive rumbles.
After some time vocalizing and circling, both females clash physically. They ram into each other's bodies, slam their tails at each other, and nip and kick to battle their rival into submission.
These battles continue until one female either willingly forfeits, or reaches deathscars and is forced to withdraw.
The female that forfeits is chased off by the victor and the rest of the glade.
Despite this, these types of disputes are rare, and the majority end before an engagement begins. Heavily scarred does, or does leading very large glades, are seen as more experienced, and very intimidating.

Subordinates expelling their matriarch
Subordinates within a glade only chase out the matriarch if she shows repeated and severe demonstrations of inexperience. Otherwise, subordinates deeply respect a well-behaving matriarch.
If, collectively, the subordinates decide to expel their matriarch, all does will band together as a united front, nipping and swiping at the Matriarch to chase her from the territory.
After the matriarch is chased out, the glade falls into a chaotic and unorganized state until a respected doe emerges to take over her duties as the new matriarch. This is not a violent affair, as subordinates are overall submissive, and adverse to losing their spot within the glade. Instead, the glade naturally gravitates towards the most trusted female. It may take the glade a few days to decide, making them particularly vulnerable to outside does forcefully taking over during this time.

Intruders
If an intruder is spotted on patrol, the subordinates call out in distressingly loud calls, echoing through the territory to warn the matriarch. If the matriarch perceives the warning call, she quickly spreads word to the bucks and any young they might be raising before moving to the spot of danger.
In the process, the Matriarch loudly expresses her position, serving to inform the other subordinates of the threat, and to be ready to follow and defend against it. 
In the event that a warning call is left unanswered, the does will risk splitting: one will warn the matriarch, while the other tries to keep the threat distracted. However, this option is considered to be extremely risky, sometimes ending with the subordinate facing the threat alone, and becoming gravely injured in her attempted defense.
After carefully assessing an intruder, the matriarch communicates her decision to the glade. Intruders deemed too dangerous are initially given an intimidating display with repeated tail slams and loud calls. Unfortunately, this display sometimes fails, allowing the intruder to continue to infiltrate the territory. Should the matriarch be unreachable, the subordinates decide how to handle the threat alone.

Both subordinates and the matriarch will destroy all unattended nests found within their territory.
Cross-Species Interaction
Tenontosaurus fear all raptor species - their natural predator - and prioritize challenging them over other intruders.
If multiple species enter the territory, then Achillobator, Deinonychus, Latenivenatrix, and Utahraptor are targeted for expulsion first.
Despite their territorial nature, they enjoy the company of and welcome Bonapartenykus to their group. The two species have a similar quiet nature, and Bonapartenykus aid Tenontosaurus in cleanliness, with bucks specifically bonding with them closely. In return, a glade provides a safe territory and nesting area.
Migration is somewhat common compared to other territorial species, and is most often triggered by the sight of Barsboldia within their territory. The large hadrosaurs can easily use up the glade's resources - but also serve as useful defence.
Barsboldia are too bulky and powerful to chase out, so instead a glade will follow behind a herd as it leaves, using them as a meat shield as they search for a new territory.
If a glade finds Barsboldia whilst already migrating, they may begin following them.
Bucks within kindles may care for young of similar size to fawns, but will quickly stop caring for them once they notice the young are behaving oddly.
Tenontosaurus do not find chasing out Tiny dinosaurs necessary unless they are loud and irritating.
Semi-aquatics within their territory are typically ignored, and not seen as a threat to the glade. Glades will only attempt to chase them out if they have been attacked first.
Predator Reaction
Tenontosaurus flee if attacked by 3+ Large, or any Apex carnivores. They scatter in different directions, with some subordinates attempting to lure the predators away from the bucks, young, and matriarch.
Otherwise, Tenontosaurus are willing to fight and defend themselves, their group members and their territory.
Females take the lead in engagements, with the matriarch and subordinates stepping in to defend the others. Bucks shy away from this responsibility - but will step up if needed, such as when in a kindle grouping, or when not enough does are available.
Tenontosaurus fight back with extreme brutality, kicking and slamming their tails into the predator. They take turns running back and forth, attempting to overwhelm the hunters.
Does are headstrong, and females will chase after forfeiting predators until they leave the territory - or, in the case of a solitary female, out of line of sight.
Bucks, meanwhile, are defensive, and will respect a forfeit from a predator, as long as they leave the area.
Courtship & Parenthood
Courtship
Courtship is a fairly passive process for Tenontosaurus. The matriarch may choose up to 5 males to nest with depending on the season, and number of suitable males. She does not exceed the egg limits for the species, but may opt to have split paternity for her nest to ensure genetic diversity for her fawns.
The matriarch is the only female which may openly nest, and she will expel any subordinates caught attempting to nest.
Each buck within a glade bids for the matriarch's attention. In attempts to gain her favor, they take care to spend time grooming her, bring her gifts of food or interesting objects, and show off their fitness with stretches and small dances.
A common behavior of bucks is crouching low to the ground and nibbling at the matriarch's chin, in a gesture known as "cobbing", which serves additionally as a show of submission.
When the matriarch rests or settles down to sleep, bucks excitedly push to be the first to lay next to her. They briefly shove and kick the air near each other to battle for the best spot, before settling down beside her. If bucks become too rowdy as the matriarch tries to rest, she will irritatedly grunt and move away from them, refusing to lay next to the males.
Bucks act similarly whenever greeting the matriarch as she returns, crowding around her and shoving against each other to cobble and show her affection. Males are never overly aggressive when they scuffle towards the matriarch, as those which attempt to cause harm or excessively shove will never be selected as mates.
The matriarch assesses and chooses her mates based on various behaviors she observes in day-to-day life. She searches for parental and gentle behavior, submission, care for the glade, and playful bucks that possess healthy behaviour. She particularly enjoys males that are the first to greet, lay next to her and groom.
Bucks that show aggressive behavior within the glade, behave recklessly, or do not have a parental nature are always rejected and even expelled from the glade in extreme cases. The matriarch does not tolerate a lack of submission, and considers such males unfit to raise young.
After choosing her bucks, the matriarch approaches each one individually and crouches to the ground in front of them, before reaching her head up and rubbing her neck against them. The males begin following her after this action, as she will lead them to the nesting site within the territory, urging the males to gather resources. All bucks - even those that were not chosen - pitch in to help construct the nests to try and gain favor.

Parenthood
After the matriarch's nest has been built, bucks move to place one of their own in a defensive position, surrounding the primary nest.
Does are indifferent parents, and focus more on maintaining the group's wellbeing and leadership.
In contrast, bucks display an innate parental drive, and actively engage in nurturing behaviors, often forming strong bonds with offspring. They are attentive to the needs of the glade's young, offering protection, guidance, and affection, and play an active role in their upbringing.
Bucks prioritize the well-being of offspring and are willing to make sacrifices to ensure their survival. Although males consistently showcase a more nurturing side, does occasionally check up on offspring to ensure they are well groomed and fed. Signs of neglect are immediately met with aggression towards the bucks responsible.
A doe will begrudgingly show a more parental side towards young if the situation requires it of her, but always opts to leave this in the hands of the bucks.
However - if the matriarch notices pale or sickly offspring under the age of Sub-Adult, she will cull them. Likewise, males will still shun and chase away fawns that behave sickly, to prioritize the rest of the group.
Sneaky Nesting
Due to the limited nature of the matriarch's reproductive abilities, bucks that weren’t selected to nest after a long period of courtship may find other means to ultimately pass down their genetic lineage, and commonly stray towards more risky endeavors. ‘
Subordinates during this period may profit from the matriarch's sudden stolen focus in order to entice an overlooked buck. Waiting until the matriarch is distracted elsewhere, does looking to sneakily nest spend some time gathering valuable items to present as gifts to their chosen buck.
Egg shaped items, such as pinecones and rocks, especially help to communicate a doe's interest towards a buck, and are prime gifts to be offered.
If the buck is interested, the pair will silently slip away to a remote part of the territory and build a nest together to incubate the eggs. When offspring hatch, the buck ushers these additional hatchlings into the main nest with the matriarch.
It is vital that this process makes little to no noise, and only happens as the glade sleeps - or that the matriarch is at least occupied elsewhere.
If all goes well, the matriarch does not notice the additional young that join the nest, and accepts them as if they were her own fawns. Should any noise occur during this delicate process, the matriarch is alerted to the intrusion, and opts to cull the offspring immediately.
Successful integration of fawns is only possible when the matriarch's fawns are juvenile or younger.  Subordinates can only nest with one male when sneaky nesting.
Should the matriarch catch a subordinate attempting to sneakily court - or worse still, discover the nest with fawns still inside - the subordinate is driven from the glade, with all fawns culled if they are not quick enough to escape.

Same-Sex Pairing
Bucks may form a same sex pair. These naturally form over time, and most commonly come about between bucks that have spent a considerable amount of time together, bonding closely. Despite forming a same sex pair, bucks rarely deny a doe during courtship, and bucks within a pair are content to rear young together.
Does do not form same sex pairings.
Elderly & End of Life (Optional)
As bucks reach the older stages of life, their colors slowly darken to a deep brown or black. Particularly old males may even appear melanistic, though reaching this age is rare.
These males live a slow and more gentle life, though often find themselves being chosen as a courting partner much less. They continue caring for young but - due to their slower movements - typically end up dying if left to defend fawns from predators alone.
If not picked off by predators, eventually their legs give way and they slowly drag themselves away from the glade to die, sometimes accompanied by another closely bonded buck.
As does age, they colors and patterns tend to dull out. They acquire more grey and light features - though this doesn't affect their entire body in the same way age appears in bucks.
Does, both subordinates and the matriarch, become more irritable with their advancing age, and frequently attempt to showcase their strength with riskier behaviors, aiming to maintain the appearance of youthful strength. Their decisions and coordination slowly falter, and thus cause a doe to lose respect within the glade until her inevitable expulsion.
Upon expulsion, elder does linger outside of the territory for multiple days until leaving. These lone elder females are especially vulnerable to predators and move slowly, unable to properly defend themselves. They follow Barsboldia herds until eventually the strength in their legs wane, they are unable to keep up, or they are picked off by predators.
Both bucks and does will mourn the loss of a buck - but only bucks mourn the loss of a doe.
 
Notes
Multiple fathers may be included in one nesting post to avoid channel clutter.
If using PotBot nests, one nesting post should be posted per father, with egg numbers limited.

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 2400
Adjusted Stats: none
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 14.06.2025 23:04
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Blight Examples
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 14.06.2025 23:36
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 22:40
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
✦ Riparia Differences
This map is a temporary map, and will be updated soon!
Profile - Quick View
Tenontosaurus are  Medium Cathemeral Terrestrial Herbivores.
Tenontosaurus form polyandrous bonds.
Tenontosaurus are territorial and claim medium territories when in groups containing a female. All-male groups are nomadic.
Tenontosaurus can group up to unlimited sub/adults, unlimited offspring. Groups containing a female are known as a glade, and all male groups are known as a kindle. Adoptees are only welcomed into kindle groupings.
Females are aggressive, and males are tolerant.
Tenontosaurus can have up to 4 in an engagement. They flee from 3+ Large and any Apex predator.
Tenontosaurus have strong behavioral dimorphism between the genders. Females, known as does, are aggressive and hierarchical. Males, known as bucks, are tolerant, gentle, and highly parental.
Glade groupings are led by a matriarch. This female determines nesting, territory and group structure. Other females within the glade are known as subordinates - they must show submission to the matriarch, or risk expulsion.
Bucks universally nurture offspring and will adopt orphaned fawns they encounter if in a kindle group.
Bucks not chosen by the matriarch for nesting can sometimes be led astray by a subordinate, with the pair sneakily nesting and aiming to sneak their young into the matriarch's nest. If the young are close enough in age to the matriarch's offspring, and can enter the nest silently, they are often accepted by the matriarch as her own offspring.
Tenontosaurus sometimes develop an unusual health condition known as "blight". Blight causes a pale appearance and social exile from others - Tenontosaurus will not tolerate the presence of individuals experiencing blight.
Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?