Lambeosaurus
    "Lamb", "Lambeo"
Lambeosaurus are a social and gregarious herd species who travel closely along waterways that they use to their advantage when fleeing from predators. Lambeosaurus herds move away from predators as one unit, synchronizing their motions to make it confusing for predators and to defend their herd members. Lambeosaurus does are more dominant and initiate courtship, while Lambeosaurus bucks are more submissive. Parents work closely together to raise their fragile fawns.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Red
Includes ideas from: Kittyful
Photo: Babble
Profile inspired by sheep, sambar deer, dik-dik, and creative liberty.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


2_easy_lambeo.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 14.07.2025 00:50
Overview
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 23.11.2025 23:59
Medium Diurnal Terrestrial Herbivore
Lambeosaurus form temporary pairbonds that may develop into lifelong bonds after 5 successful clutches.
Lambeosaurus are nomadic.
Lambeosaurus have a passive nature.
Lambeosaurus may group with: Bonapartenykus, Camptosaurus, Iguanodon, Parasaurolophus, Citipati and Struthiomimus.
Lambeosaurus may not defend these species, even when grouped with them.
Lambeosaurus tolerate albino, melanistic, and mutated individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Lambeosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic, IoAR Albino
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

PROFILE SPECIFIC UNIQUE FEATURE
Some female Lambeosaurus born to a majority male clutch, or with a male twin, may be born as a freemartin. This means that, while she is biologically female, she may exhibit some male behaviors, and cannot nest, even if courted successfully. This is further indicated by using the DR Freemartin skin.
Male Lambeosaurus who are born to a majority female clutch, or with a female twin, may use the DR Freemartin skin. They typically father smaller, limited clutches, and express more dominance than their male counterparts.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Unlimited Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a herd.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Predator Reaction: ⁨⁨Flighty⁩⁩ / ⁨⁨Defensive⁩⁩
When met with 1+ Apex predators, Lambeosaurus opt to flee rather than stand and fight.
If they are in a herd of less than 5 adults, they will also flee 3+ Large.
Lambeosaurus may opt to flee an engagement at any time, regardless of the size and number of carnivores hunting them.
Against Large, Medium and below carnivores:
Lambeosaurus may have 3 individuals entering an active engagement. This consists of the one attacked, and two defenders.
The three in the engagement rush to the front of the herd to create a barrier between them and the rest of the herd members. The other members of the herd rush away from the engagement.
Lambeosaurus are not intimidated by pairs or less of Small tier or any Tiny tier carnivores. They will be watched, but do not provoke a stampede or defensive behavior unless they attack.
Defenders are only allowed to use a maximum of 3 buff calls during an engagement/challenge that directly involves them. This limit applies to Primal Mend, Healing Call, Rejuvenating Roar and Guiding Beacon.
Lambeosaurus can use water to its advantage to flee from predators. It may defend itself from predators while in water, but must continue to cross while doing so. Lambeosaurus may not stand in the water for extended periods to deter predators, and must cross instead. A Lambeosaurus may cross back and forth as many times as is necessary, but must have appropriate stamina to do so.
 
Preferred Diet
Berries, fruit, flowers, nuts, and roots

Nesting Limits
🌧️ Rainy Season: 4 🥚 per 3 hours.
☀️ Dry Season: 2 🥚 per 4 hours.
Freemartin does have no successful eggs in their clutches; Freemartin bucks may only father up to 1 egg at a time, in either season. Multipliers may not be used to increase the number of eggs.
Lambeosaurus nest in dense foliage nearby fresh water sources. Their nests are built out of rocks and mud.
Lambeosaurus may form same-sex pairs, and may adopt. Lambeosaurus in same sex pairs will not nest with the opposite sex.

Physical Dimorphism
Lambeosaurus do not exhibit physical dimorphism, and instead exhibit differences in social behavior.
This profile does not have high or low testosterone individuals.
♀️ Females, known as does, greet other Lambeosaurus by remaining on all fours, dipping their heads and using the shake emote. Does rarely, if ever, raise onto their backlegs, unless a threat is near.
♂️ Males, known as bucks, greet other Lambeosaurus by rising onto their back legs, lifting their heads and using the shake emote. Bucks often act as sentries for the herd.
Behavioral greetings are mandatory and the incorrect behavioral greeting may not be used to “trick” others into believing they are the opposite sex.
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 24.11.2025 00:00
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Hatchling Lambeosaurus, called fawns, emerge from their eggs slowly, before quickly laying down into the dense leaves and shrubbery surrounding their mother’s nest.
They often hatch alone, with their parents maintaining a distance of at least a few body lengths throughout the early moments of their fawns’ lives. At this time, fawns are too weak to run and much too fragile and slow to keep up in the case of a stampede.
Fawns remain quiet and still instinctively, only calling for their parents in short, panicked barks and shrieks if injured or if one of their clutchmates is hunted.
Towards the end of their hatchling stage, fawns slowly stand on wobbly legs. Their parents, watching carefully, keep their distance but snort quick breaths through their noise to lure their offspring close.
These chuffing calls help the baby fawn recognize their parents, especially when entire herds are nesting. The walk taken from the nest to their parents is a slow process, but an essential one– forcing fawns to develop the strength they need to migrate with their herd for the rest of their lives.
Juvenile fawns stay as close as they physically can to their parents, which often means accidentally getting in their way when they are going for food or water. Experienced parents keep this in mind and move more slowly than younger parents, who rush to ensure all the needs of their fawns are met.
Juvenile fawns begin to show interest in their clutchmates, as well as other fawns in the herd, and spend long periods of time quietly gazing at one another in interest.
Siblings, especially those of the same sex, begin to form bonds that will last them entire lifetimes. Mimicking the behaviors of their parents, they issue soft calls and carefully groom one another.
Juvenile fawns are also taught to swim by their parents along the banks of rivers, with the parents standing or swimming steadily in the depths of the river to model the behavior and ensure that there are no predators. Fawns take to swimming easily and excitedly, and enjoy splashing their parents and siblings.
When fleeing from predators, parents rush their fawns to the nearest place for them to hide - whether it be a den, deep foliage, or via crossing a water source. Fawns know to go completely still and quiet in dens and foliage, and to swim closely behind and beside their parents when at odds with a threat.
At adolescence, fawns begin to exhibit some gender dimorphism, with males often spending a great deal of time walking around on their hind legs and watching over the herd, and females staying low, taking care of other smaller creatures they find.
Adolescent Lambeosaurus begin to play with one another and other adults with their herd in many ways. The most popular route is shoving; with fawns pushing other fawns, their parents, and even bonded adults in the herd into water ways, shrubbery, and more. 
This can be much to the annoyance of their parents, who quickly do mock kicks in their directions to deter the fawns. While kicks are rarely intended to land, those who receive an accidental blow from their parents quickly correct their unruly behavior, shaking apologetically.
Fawns also do mock kicks towards one another, but blows being landed quickly result in loud frightened cries, and fawns scuttling back to the security of their mother - or any female in the herd- to have the other fawn corrected.
 
Fawns enjoy climbing on top of rocks and cliffsides, much to the dismay of their parents. From there they posture and call loudly before being shooed off the cliffside and back to the herd by their mother. One misstep can result in tragedy.
As fawns reach sub-adult, they begin to calm down, now more aware of the social expectations of the herd. However, young adults still happily initiate play with other young adults in the herd, and even do so as a way to flirt.
Sub-adult fawns only disperse if there is a lack of resources, or if courting opportunities lead them elsewhere. Otherwise, they may spend their entire lives with their natal herd.

✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Fawns who wake up alone spend most of their early lives hidden, only feebly bleating if something suitable to be a mother approaches. This often takes the form of other Lambeosaurus, Iguanodon, Barsboldia, and Parasaurolophus; but may also be Camptosaurus and sometimes even Citipati.
If any other species approach the fawn, it remains extremely still and silent, following natural instinct. A fawn only begins to show panic if aggression is shown to it, and bolts from all threats and danger when this happens.
If a fawn is orphaned while a part of a herd, it quickly becomes adopted by any other interested individual in the herd.
Fawns who grow up alone struggle with integrating socially into herds, often straying far behind or pushing far ahead, and showing less interest in courtship and nesting. These behaviors tend to settle after their first successful courtship and nest, and they quickly begin to move as one again with the rest of the herd.
Bild
Lambeosaurus are quirky and simple, thriving in a group setting with other Lambeosaurus. With a very limited sense of personal space amongst themselves and other friendly hadrosaurid species, Lambeosaurus does are highly tolerant and social, staying very close to members of their herd.
Lambeosaurus bucks are shyer than does and are more submissive. They tend to be more nervous, being the first to alert the herd of any perceived threats with sharp barks and stomps.
Lambeosaurus herds move together as one unit - as when one Lambeosaurus begins to lead, the rest of the herd instinctively follow, keeping their bodies and young close together. Without the security of a herd, whether it be Lambeosaurus or another herbivorous species, Lambeosaurus begin to struggle, and may even become ill from stress.
Lambeosaurus have an excellent sense of smell and hearing - they can detect the sounds of a predator's footsteps from a great distance. In many situations, this results in the entire herd silently bolting, rushing fawns to safety and not wishing to draw the predator’s attention.
Lambeosaurus are comforted by the sight of other Lambeosaurus nearby, and seek eye contact often. This means that some of the most bonded pairs spend long periods of time silently gazing at one another, affectionately nuzzling and shaking themselves at the other on occasion.
Lambeosaurus herds prefer to live and nest in dense forests along waterways.
Migration routes typically follow rivers, allowing Lambeosaurus to flee into the water if being hunted or if a threat is seen.
Lambeosaurus may be seen briefly rising onto their back legs to reach prime food sources. 
Lambeosaurus can be very picky about their food sources, taking extra effort to find the freshest shoots, leaves and berries - ignoring trampled areas.
Lambeosaurus have scent glands beneath their eyes that they use to leave their scent on favored food sources, areas, family, and friends.
Lambeosaurus prefer to avoid open areas, and will not spend much time out in open areas, if possible.
[OPTIONAL]: In the Dry Season, some Lambeosaurus herds can be observed migrating to Red Island en masse, in order to find new individuals to court and nest with, as well as to take advantage of the resources there. Very few species are able to make the long swim. Once their young reach Sub-Adult, they are ferried back across the sea to return to Gondwa, and continue their regular migrations there.
✦ Downtime Behavior
There are always one or two Lambeosaurus, typically males, who watch over the herds as sentries for potential predators both in the daytime and at night. These individuals may be substituted with Struthiomimus or Citipati, depending on the herd's level of calm.
Lambeosaurus often nest at night, when the herd is at its quietest and is the least likely to draw attention to predators. However, due to the performative nature of courtship, they will only court during the day.
When sleeping, Lambeosaurus tend to herd close together, with their faces close to those that they care about.
 
Bild
✦ Herds
Lambeosaurus do not have dedicated leaders in groups, and often follow the first individual to set into motion, mimicking their posture and pace. This results in herds moving together as one mass, with fawns kept tucked within the center. Those who straggle or stray from the rest of the herd often panic at being left behind and rush to meet the rest.
Lambeosaurus are very social within their herds, and will happily greet any new individual to join the herd, issuing affectionate bleats and shaking at them in greeting.
Does tend to exhibit a more dominant personality, with bucks being more shy and submissive. Does are fiercely protective of those they bond with and their own offspring.
Lambeosaurus do not mind intrusions to their personal space by other species accepted into their herd, as well as by other Lambeosaurus. In fact, close proximity often soothes a panicked or frightened Lambeosaurus, with individuals bunching closely together when danger appears, or during inactive periods at night.
There are always one or two Lambeosaurus, typically males, who watch over the herds as sentries for potential predators both in the daytime and at night. These individuals may be substituted with Struthiomimus or Citipati, depending on the herd's level of calm.
✦ Solitary Behavior
Lambeosaurus are a highly social species, and unless orphaned and having grown up alone, often struggle with extended periods of isolation from a herd or another friendly species.
Solitary Lambeosaurus often seek a sentry species if unable to find another Lambeosaurus companion, and will rely on them to meet their social and emotional needs. They may also join other Parasaurolophus or Iguanodon herds for company.
The potential of being hunted while alone puts a Lambeosaurus in a great deal of emotional distress, with constant fear calls as it bolts at any odd movement or sound. It may defend itself from less than 3+ Large when hunted, but must flee from 3+ Large and Apexes.
✦ Mutated Behavior
Albino and Melanistic Lambeosaurus spend much more of their lives in water, using the water to regulate their body temperatures and in some cases avoid sunburn.

FREEMARTIN:
Freemartins are individuals who were born with a male or female twin in the same clutch, who struggle with infertility and exhibit some behaviors of the opposite sex. This is an optional affliction, but it is common that both twins are freemartins.
Freemartin individuals must still display the behavioral greetings aligned with their biological sex.
Freemartin Lambeosaurus do not struggle with courtship. Female freemartins have no eggs, and male freemartins only father up to 1 egg.
Bild
Lambeosaurus exhibit very little real aggression towards each other; rather, focusing on quiet displays of dominance.
Does approach one another, getting very close to one another. They will maintain an extended period of eye contact, huffing sharp breaths to indicate their frustration. The first to falter and back off is considered the less dominant individual. These conflicts never turn to loud aggressive calls or blows.
Bucks exhibit dominance by performing showy kicks, tail attacks, and punches with their forelegs. Those who move away from a performing male are considered more submissive than the other. However, if a blow lands by accident, both bucks are quick to shake off the stress and separate, with no clear winner.
Bild
Lambeosaurus are a social and friendly species, even going as far as to share resources with any others that approach. They do not truly “resource guard” food and water sources from any other species, and will even move away once full to avoid conflict.
Lambeosaurus tend to give larger ceratopsians such as Styracosaurus, Albertaceratops, Pachyrhinosaurus, and Eotriceratops a wider berth, not wanting to face the sharp ends of their horns. Regardless, they are always tolerant of these herbivores.
Large sauropods such as Ampelosaurus, Apatosaurus, and Argentinosaurus tend to frighten most Lambeosaurus due to sheer size alone - but no Lambeosaurus flee from them, only giving them a wide berth.
Sentry species, such as Struthiomimus, Camptosaurus, and Citipati, are fondly welcomed into herds. Citipati are not tolerated to pick up fragile Lambeosaurus offspring, but are allowed to watch over the herd while they feed and sleep. Attempts to pick up fawns are quickly responded to with loud, aggressive brays and even kicks from new mothers.
Lurdusaurus are viewed as friends similar to Camptosaurus, so are greeted excitedly. However, Lurdusaurus are nowhere near as friendly as Camptosaurus, and typically respond with grumpy and even aggressive calls and grunts. This often results in panic from offending Lambeosaurus, whom quickly flee back to their herd.
Other hadrosaurs (& Iguanodon) are happily grouped with and warmly tolerated, and are quickly considered to be a part of their herds.
✦ Hadrosaurs & Iguanodon
Parasaurolophus are often some of a Lambeosaurus herd’s closest allies; while they will not defend one another, they will travel together and orphaned Lambeosaurus may even be adopted by them. Lambeosaurus enjoy singing alongside Parasaurolophus and will often carefully watch over young Parasaurolophus (even if only from a distance).
Iguanodon are a fierce addition to a Lambeosaurus herd. They are much more loud, boisterous, and fiercely defensive than a Lambeosaurus, and therefore are valued as potential distractions or better targets to predators.
Barsboldia are large hadrosaur cousins that may at times follow Lambeosaurus herds when solitary. They are tolerated in their own herds or when following the herd, but some mothers may become nervous when the much larger species get too close to their nesting sites or offspring. This never turns to full blown aggression, and typically results in mothers leading their offspring away.
Bild
Up to three Lambeosaurus may rush to the defense of the herd against Large tiers and below. These defenders rush forward with fierce kicks and sweeping tails to deter the predators from the rest of the fleeing herd.
If there is 5 or less adult members in the herd, and the herd is confronted by 3+ Large tiers, Lambeosaurus will flee.
Lambeosaurus in mixed species herds will do this only if there are less than 5 adult members of Medium tier or higher. 
Regardless of herd size, Lambeosaurus will always flee from all Apex carnivores. They do so even when in a mixed species herd.
A Lambeosaurus may flee from any engagement at any time. They will move closely together with their herd, attempting to use synchronous motion and movement to confuse predators as well as protect more fragile or injured members in the herd. 
Offspring, elderly, and injured are typically ferried to the center of the fleeing herd - but others may panic and attempt to shove their way into the middle, resulting in further injuries and greater risk.
A Lambeosaurus will use water to its advantage by crossing in order to deter predators. They swim nearly as fast in water as they do bounding over land, meaning that it puts larger gaps between them and their hunters.
Lambeosaurus tend to show great fear when faced with Daspletosaurus, their natural predators. Daspletosaurus develop strategies passed down through generations in hunting Lambeosaurus herds, herding herds in order to corner them and hunt them. Even defenders panic with pressure from Daspletosaurus.
If a member in the fleeing portion of the herd is attacked, they are able to defend themselves and not be counted towards an active defender. They may not chase the predator, nor may they stop fleeing when given the opportunity.
When nesting and with hatchling fawns, parents may freeze at the sight of a predator, especially if they are near her nests. Parents will attempt to call the predator’s attention to themselves and lead them away from their offspring, towards the defenders or fleeing herd, and will only return to her nest and offspring when the predators are gone. 
Fawns instinctively go quiet and still, hiding in the foliage around their hidden nests. They will only begin to bleat and call if attacked, or if no one returns for them.
Bild
✦ Courtship
During resting periods, Lambeosaurus does are the first to initiate courtship. This is done by the careful and quiet construction of a nest in deep foliage, preferably nearby a water source, and nestled within thick coverage.
Building a nest is a careful and meticulous process. Does bring twigs, roots, and reeds to their nests to ensure the nest is comfortable, safe and warm for her future fawns. She takes particular care to fill it with mashed and regurgitated shoots, roots, and berries.
Even small decorative items are brought to the nest - both to lure potential males as mates, and to serve as objects of curiosity and play to fawns.
Once she is satisfied with her nest, the doe will begin to perform and prance in front of her nest. She will raise onto her back legs, sing and kick her legs in attempt to draw the attention of bucks nearby. She may even unleash series of spinning kicks, lowering her head and kicking her back legs into the air.
These performances will only occur during the day.
Interested bucks will approach the female and her nest with a gift, typically a food item of some sort. If more than one buck approaches the female, or she is satisfied with the male’s gift, she will pick up the item and eat it, or place it in her nest.
She will then affectionately call too and nuzzle the buck, inviting him close to the nest as they wait for the arrival and hatching of their offspring.
Does with lifelong bonds will initiate the same process, but will only select her lifelong bonded male.
✦ Nesting
Lambeosaurus herds typically prefer to nest at night when the herd is quiet and at rest. They may nest during the day, however exhibit higher levels of anxiety as the herd tends to draw more attention naturally during the day time.
Once the doe has accepted a buck, they will rest together until the eggs hatch.
✦ Parenthood
Once fawns hatch, parents make distance from their offspring, leaving them alone in the nest until they are able to move around on their own. They do not sleep nearby the nests, not wanting to risk the safety of their offspring.
Parents split bringing the offspring food in the nighttime period after they hatch, but otherwise keep their distance and sleep within the safety of the herd, which has typically moved away from the nests in order to provide the fawns with higher security.
Fawns first begin to walk and move from the nest where they rest to their parents, who watch and do not rush to their aid even if they stumble. This brief period without support is essential to the independence and success of their offspring, especially in regards to fleeing and keeping up with their herd.
Parents are extremely protective of their offspring, and dote heavily on them, bringing them food whenever they call. They teach their fawns necessary survival tactics from very early on, and will use their bodies to block their fawns from predators and danger.
Both mothers and fathers are extremely involved in the rearing of offspring, with fathers typically exhibiting a bit more anxiety over their fawns than mothers.
Parents work together on teaching fawns how to swim early on in their lives, and reinforce fleeing and hiding behaviors until they are adults.
✦ Offspring Maturity
As fawns reach sub-adult, they are not forced out of the herd by their parents or any other members of the herd. They are then regarded as adults by their parents– whom eagerly maintain bonds with their offspring throughout the rest of their lives.
✦ Adoption
Lambeosaurus eagerly adopt any Lambeosaurus offspring they find, even if they do not have a suitable mate to share parenthood with, both outside and within their herd. They do not adopt other species, but may tolerate imprinting species such as Citipati. They will not defend an imprinted baby.
Adopted Lambeosaurus offspring are treated as biological offspring for all intents and purposes, and are protected fiercely by their adoptive parents.

As Lambeosaurus age, they begin to desaturate their colors, and show less interest in courtship and nesting.
Elderly Lambeosaurus also tend to exhibit less anxiety as they age, typically due to losing their hearing. Deaf Lambeosaurus tend to fall behind the rest of their herd, resulting in more easily being picked off by predators.
Elderly Lambeosaurus are regarded as valued members of the herd, and are typically pushed to the middle of a fleeing herd when it is time to flee. However, no Lambeosaurus will stay behind to defend them if they are unable to keep up.
✦ Death
Lambeosaurus deeply grieve the losses of other members in their herd, particularly offspring, parents, siblings, and mates. Lambeosaurus may enter a temporary period of grieving where they move more slowly or stay in areas the deceased individual enjoyed for extended periods of time.
Elderly Lambeosaurus typically pass away in their sleep, if not lost to opportunistic carnivores when they get left behind by their herd. When they settle down to sleep one night, they may never rise again, surrounded by the comfort of their herdmates.
Bild
Lambeosaurus may use Family Chorus in a mixed species herd.
 
Bild
Defenders are only allowed to use a maximum of 3 buff calls during an engagement/challenge that directly involves them. This limit applies to Primal Mend, Healing Call, Rejuvenating Roar and Guiding Beacon.
Lambeosaurus can use water to its advantage in order to flee from predators. It may defend itself from predators in water (but may not stop crossing to do so). Lambeosaurus must cross water, not stand in the water, but may cross as many times as is necessary to deter predators, as long as it has appropriate stamina.
 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 22:32
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Lambeosaurus are Medium Diurnal Terrestrial Herbivores.
Lambeosaurus can group up to unlimited sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees.
Lambeosaurus are passive.
Lambeosaurus can have up to 3 in an engagement. The rest of the herd flees as quickly as possible from the engagement.
Lambeosaurus will always flee from Apex tiers. Lambeosaurus will flee from 3+ Large tiers when in a Lambeosaurus herd of 5 or less. Lambeosaurus in mixed species herds will do this only if there are less than 5 adult members of Medium tier or higher.
Lambeosaurus does are the more dominant of the two sexes, initiating courtship via constructing nests and displaying. Lambeosaurus bucks are more submissive, and present gifts to females in order to court them. Both sexes work together to raise fawns, whom primarily hatch at night.
Lambeosaurus herds flee from predators and danger in massive synchronous movements, using their similarities and bodies to push offspring, the injured, and elderly to the center of the herd.
Lambeosaurus bond via eye contact, and may spend long periods of time looking at one another, chuffing softly. Does may attempt to exhibit dominance over one another by getting directly in one another's faces and exhibiting intense eye contact.
Solitary Lambeosaurus struggle with anxiety, but are successful when finding another hadrosaurus or Iguanodon herd to join. Lambeosaurus are highly social and gregarious, and enjoy interacting with other Lambeosaurus and friendly herding species.
Lambeosaurus prefer to move along waterways and water sources, giving an easy route to flee from predators.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 3500
Adjusted Stats:
- Health increased to 650 from 525
- Sprint speed increased by 10%
- Fast swim stamina cost reduced
- Swim stamina cost reduced
- Sprint stamina cost reduced
- Tail cooldown reduced to 1 second
 
Lambeosaurus - Predator Reaction Guide
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2GnxNbMztq8
YouTube
Dynasty Realism
Dynasty Realism - Lambeosaurus Predator Reaction
Bild
Table of Contents
Details
Offspring Behavior
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Predator Reaction
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Profile Notes
Quick View

Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?