Apatosaurus
    "Apa", "Apato"
Apatosaurus are massive, nomadic species defined by their strong family groupings - known as pods - led by an elder female known as the matriarch. Though generally calm and tolerant, they carry an underlying irritability, and are quick to assert themselves with overwhelming force if they feel their space or resources are threatened.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Kittyful
Includes ideas from: Red
Photo: Territebs
Profile inspired by african elephants, and speculation on sauropod behavior through paleontology.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.05.2026 03:24
Overview
Bild
Apex Diurnal Terrestrial Herbivore
Apatosaurus form temporary pairbonds that can form into lifelong pairbonds through mutual decision.
Apatosaurus are nomadic.
Apatosaurus have a tolerant nature.
Apatosaurus may group with: Amargasaurus, Argentinosaurus, Citipati, Struthiomimus.
Apatosaurus do not defend these other species, but allow themselves to be used as meatshields.
Apatosaurus tolerate albino and melanistic individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Apatosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Unlimited Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as an Apatosaurus herd.

Within a herd, smaller social groupings form, consisting of:
1 dominant or elder female, known as the matriarch
Unlimited individuals of either sex related to her.
These can be of any relation, so long as they can be traced back to the matriarch in some way.
Offspring & Adoptees
Lifelong bonded mates
Males leave their birth pod to join their mate's pod.

This sub-group is known as a pod, and is led by the matriarch. Multiple pods can exist and group/travel together in a herd.

Individuals unrelated to others drift between different members of the herd, but do not formally belong to a pod.
 
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Predator Reaction: Defensive
1 Sub/Adult Apatosaurus may enter an engagement as their own defender.
Against two Apex carnivores, up to 2 Sub/Adult Apatosaurus may defend.
Adolescent Apatosaurus may have the following defenders:
Up to 2 Adults. These must be related to the individual, or the adoptive parents.
Juvenile & Hatchling Apatosaurus may have the following defenders:
Up to 3 other Juveniles or Hatchlings. These can be related or unrelated.

Preferred Diet
Apatosaurus consume berries, fruit and flowers as their primary diet, and feed constantly throughout day and night.
In addition, they consume nuts and shellfish to aid with digestion and grinding of their food. This is normally done in between other grazing.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 1 hour.
Apatosaurus nest in Volcano Island on Riparia, and Burned Forest on Gondwa.
Apatosaurus may form same sex pairs. These pairs are considered to be their own pods, or may join with either individual's birth pod.

Physical Dimorphism
This profile does not have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Females, known as cows, have smooth, spineless backs, necks and tails.
Suitable subspecies include: Standard Variation 5, Thin, Stocky Variation 7, Standard Variation 8
♂️ Males, known as bulls, have a row of spines that run along their back, neck and tail.
Suitable subspecies include: Standard, Slim, Stocky, Standard Variation 4
Physical dimorphism for Apatosaurus is mandatory.
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Apatosaurus young, known as calves, hatch in the warm, ashy substrate of Volcano Island & Burned Forest. Their parents remain nearby in the area, and come forward to briefly nuzzle their newly hatched offspring, before ushering them towards the foliage.
Due to their tiny size, calves are too fragile to migrate alongside adults. Instead, they spend the earliest part of their lives clustered together within dense foliage, relying on staying hidden for survival.
Calves are mobile shortly after hatching, and instinctively move towards areas of thick plant cover, where trees and ferns provide shelter from both predators and the elements.
Apatosaurus young form loose nursery groups, remaining close to one another while the adults in the herd occupy the open ground nearby.
Smaller, alert sentry species often take the opportunity to pass through these nursery areas, serving as ideal alarm systems for calves. Citipati and Struthiomimus are especially cherished, thanks to their gentle and affectionate natures.
Calves feed almost constantly to support their rapid growth. This growth is an essential defence against predation, and offspring must grow quickly in order to rejoin and migrate alongside the rest of the herd.
If predators attack, calves do not run towards adults for protection. Instead, they freeze, and rush between different cover levels to hide.
If hiding is no longer an option, calves may rush to defend each other - up to a maximum of 4 in the engagement.
Calves are highly social with one another, and maintain close proximity where possible, preferring to graze in pairs or more for security.
Play consists of light chasing games through the undergrowth, with both sexes taking it in turns to act as both the chaser and the chasee.
Calves are notorious for lifting things with their mouths. Items such as branches, rocks and miscellaneous foliage are collected and held by young that nibble on them idle-mindedly, before the object is discarded in favour of something new.
At Juvenile, particularly dominant calves - usually bulls - begin practising mock charges at one another. This type of play is usually mutual - though rougher calves may occasionally overstep and barrel into another, or frighten a playmate away.
Calves remain highly attuned to the nearby calls and sounds of any sentry species they have with them. The alarm call of a Struthiomimus or Citipati is enough to scatter calves into hiding, who then only re-emerge when the danger has passed.
At Adolescent, calves begin broadcasting for their parents in loud - yet somewhat shrill - bellows. They move towards the open ground to be warmly greeted by both mother and father, and immediately nuzzle against them, ready to join the herd and begin migrations.
Once reintegrated with the herd, calves stick closely to both parents - with cows preferring to mirror their mothers, and bulls following behind their fathers. However, this behavior is not wholly gender exclusive - some cows bond particularly strongly with their fathers, and some bulls remain forever close to their mothers.
By Sub-Adult, calves are considered mature enough to no longer receive the protection of their parents, but do not begin courting until they reach full Adult. They rarely - if ever - disperse from the herd, and remain in their familial pod until they find partners.
Cows remain in their familial pod indefinitely, while bulls transfer into their future mates' pod.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Freshly hatched orphans begin life much like parented calves by rushing towards cover and relying on concealment, feeding, and rapid growth for survival.
In early life, little distinguishes them from calves with parents. They may still form nursery groups with other Apatosaurus calves, and avoid the open ground until older.
It is at adolescent that a difference emerges - while calves with parents rush to be greeted by them, orphaned calves often linger at the edge of open ground, calling for parents that never respond, before eventually accepting their solitude.
Some fortunate orphans born near an active herd may be adopted at this stage, with prospective parents stepping forward to guide and accept them.
Those that are not, however, are forced to either migrate alone, or seek companionship among other sauropods and compatible groupables.
Even when solitary, orphaned Apatosaurus instinctively seek out herds wherever they roam, and rarely abandon the hope of finding and joining a pod.
Bild
Apatosaurus are bold yet calm creatures, and are rarely hurried unless provoked. Even while migrating, they move with seeming patience, drifting between scatterings of berry bushes and refusing to rush without reason.
Despite their huge size, they are highly aware of their surroundings and difficult to surprise. They listen carefully for distant calls, watch for subtle movement and feel the vibrations through the ground to maintain awareness.
They are creatures of habit and routine, with pods preferring familiar paths and showing disdain at any disruption to their regular routines.
Apatosaurus are fond of mud wallows and take every opportunity to indulge whenever they encounter a suitable patch. They settle down and begin rolling and rubbing the mud against their skin, keen to coat it as a form of protection against biting insects, and also cool it from the baking heat.
Mud wallowing can be a major determinant of where herds and pods migrate. Matriarchs remember especially favourable places for wallowing and make sure to revisit these places in future.
It also serves as a social activity for pods, with groups of Apatosaurus moving to settle and coat themselves in mud together. These times can be especially exciting for adolescents, who keenly copy the adults in the group.
Apatosaurus can become somewhat "fidgety" - both while migrating and at grazing or rest stops. They may swish and flick their tails in a whip-like motion, give loose shakes of their heads and necks and strip barks from nearby trees with their teeth.
Apatosaurus continue to pick up items with their mouths well into adulthood, though these are usually confined to branches and rocks. Rocks are chewed on, with smaller pieces swallowed to aid in grinding the tough vegetation they consume. Branches serve as a form of toy for Apatosaurus, who seem to take delight in tossing them across the terrain.
Though generally tolerant, Apatosaurus become cantankerous when irritated by drought, overcrowding, or persistent scavengers. They rumble out low growls, barge past others and may even charge at those they deem to be the source of their irritation.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Apatosaurus take short naps overnight, with many individuals preferring to doze standing up, their heads lowered.
The older they become, the longer these naps seem to last. Older individuals sometimes take to sleeping an entire night period, while younger Apatosaurus sleep in shorter, quick bursts.
Noise and "chatter" amongst individuals is lessened during night times, with awake individuals opting to stay quiet, keenly listening out for their sentry's alarm calls.
Bild
✦ Herds
Apatosaurus herds consist of multiple pods and solitary individuals travelling together as one large mass. They are not led by one pod in particular, and typically follow whichever moves first.
Movement throughout the herd is fluid, with pods drifting nearer or farther from one another depending on the terrain, resources - and personal relationships.
While each pod maintains its own familial relationships, herd life offers collective protection and shared vigilance, with the passing of migratory knowledge between different generations.
✦ Pods
Within a herd, pods are the true social core of Apatosaurus life. Headed by a matriarch - usually the oldest female - they are close-knit familial groups, with each individual related in some way to the matriarch.
Pod members remain in close contact, and travel adjacent to one another, falling in line behind the matriarch during migrations.
The matriarch's position is never challenged for or questioned, with family members looking to her for reassurance and direction, and respecting her guidance for the group.
Physical affection is common, with pod members leaning against one another, brushing necks and maintaining body contact while resting.
Bulls remain in their familial pod until they find a mate - during which they transfer into her pod. This occurs directly after courting, and may be a temporary situation - until young are reared to Sub-Adult, that ends in them returning to their family pod - or permanent, when they form a lifelong bond.
✦ Bachelor Groups
Bulls without a pod often gather together in unrelated bachelor groups that travel at the back of the wider herd.
These groups are tolerant of one another but far less intimate and affectionate than pods, with members shifting in and out as they gain mates, and looser social bonds forming.
As they age, bulls without a pod and without a lifelong bond may eventually adapt to a more solitary existence - travelling further and further at the back of the herd before eventually splitting off to remain alone. Though aloof, this type of permanent isolation is rare, and most bulls opt to travel at the very back, even with advanced age.
✦ Unrelated females
Unrelated females that do not yet belong to a pod prefer to remain towards the safer middle of the herd.
✦ Same sex pairs
Same sex pairs that have pods make a decision between them on which pod they wish to remain in, with the other partner transferring over to join their mates' pod.
Same sex pairs that do not have a pod tend to form their own micro-sized pod within a herd. Sometimes they go on to adopt calves that grow and join their adopted "pod".
Micro-pods with 2 males in a same sex pair default to the first female offspring they adopt as their new matriarch.
Micro-pods with 2 females in a same sex pair choose the older or more dominant female in the pair to become the matriarch.
✦ Interactions outside of pods
Even beyond family ties, Apatosaurus are broadly tolerant of one another and often mingle freely at feeding grounds, mud wallows, and narrower passages on the migration route.
Relations between different pods are usually controlled by the matriarch of each corresponding pod. Matriarchs that are friendly with one another may prefer to migrate with their pods moving alongside one another, and tolerate more free intermingling between pod members.
Those that have more strained relations may opt to put distance between their pods, with matriarchs pushing to drive their pods away from the rivals.
Bachelor bulls prefer to stick together at the end of the herd, but may attempt to court and socialise with different pods during migrations and rest stops. Lone females, however, may move between multiple pods, happy to interact with any members of the herd that tolerate their presence.
✦ Solitary Behavior
Solitary Apatosaurus - most often older bulls, or individuals wandering in search of a herd - tend to be quieter, actively listening out for the distant calls of any other Apatosaurus in the area.
Though fully capable of surviving independently, it is rare that individuals opt for an entirely solitary existence, with many preferring to group with other sauropods, sentry species or other Apatosaurus when given the chance.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Albino & Melanistic individuals are treated no differently to other Apatosaurus, and appear to suffer little health afflictions as a result of their condition.
Albino in particular, however, are more prone to blindness than others of their species.
Bild
✦ Dry Season Irritability
Though typically patient with their species, Apatosaurus can become remarkably cantankerous - particularly during the dry season when water, shade and food becomes scarce. Tempers shorten noticeably, and individuals become far less forgiving of close proximity.
Much aggression is ritualized and preventative rather than intended to escalate into violence. Disputes are usually resolved through warning displays - such as aggressive bellows and jerking head motions - before they turn into physical altercations.
Irritability is especially common when water quality is low or where the terrain narrows. Individuals begin pushing and shoving each other to claim space or water sources.
✦ Disputes Between Pods
Conflict between pods often stems from tension between matriarchs - typically during competition over resources or disputes involving adolescent calves.
Matriarchs may confront one another through parallel posturing, warning bellows, and slow and deliberate advances forward to pressure their rivals into yielding.
Physical clashes are uncommon, but escalate to involve body shoving and smacking of necks. These disputes are brief and only between matriarchs - with the rest of the pod following behind only after a dispute has been settled.
During the dry season, pods become noticeably less tolerant of other pods, and more likely to drive others away from favored feeding spots, or wallowing pools.
✦ Resource Guarding
Pod members may band together to guard particular resources during Dry Season. They circle the defended resource, utilizing their bodies to block their opponents' access to it.
✦ Musth
Mature bulls enter periods comparable to "musth" during courtship periods. These periods occur during rest stops, after females have signified they are ready to court.
They become restless and even territorial over particular females, and show confrontational behavior toward rival males.
Bulls in musth wander from their ordinary routine and display a heightened swagger, with exaggerated posturing and low, booming vocalizations.
More can be found under Courtship & Parenthood.
✦ Temper Displays
Particularly irritable individuals showcase a range of behaviors to display their temper. These behaviors are mostly considered a form of bluffing as opposed to true violence, but the display is no less menacing.
Sudden, surging advances - or "charging" - is common when individuals feel wronged - or irritated - by another's presence. This is usually accompanied by aggressive head jerks, stomping the ground and whipping their tails in their seeming frustration.
Objects may be quickly grasped in their mouths and suddenly tossed by these individuals - usually branches or foliage.
Apatosaurus usually settle after a while, but more quickly calm down with the reassurance and comfort of their matriarch, or other experienced older females.
Bild
✦ Amargasaurus
Apatosaurus are tolerant of Amargasaurus and may readily travel alongside them during migrations - particularly as mixed herds offer added vigilance, and safety in numbers.
Though they may herd and group together, Apatosaurus tend to remain somewhat aloof, usually keeping their own pods intact rather than fully mingling socially with these smaller cousins.
Interactions between the two species are peaceful but reserved: whilst Amargasaurus are gentle and affectionate towards Apatosaurus, Apatosaurus prefer to maintain personal space.
In the Dry Season, Apatosaurus can become more irritable and less tolerant of Amargasaurus crowding their favored resources, and sometimes drive them off with bluff displays if they continue to press their boundaries.
✦ Argentinosaurus
Apatosaurus show a similar tolerance level toward Argentinosaurus, and may form vast mixed-species sauropod herds with them.
While Apatosaurus display aloofness towards other herdmates and Amargasaurus, they show unusual calm in the presence of Argentinosaurus, permitting the larger sauropod to get closer to them than they might others.
Over time, bonds may form between Apatosaurus pods and particular Argentinosaurus individuals. Experienced matriarchs with long standing relationships with Argentinosaurus may alter the pace of her pod's migration to accommodate the slower sauropods.
Even aggressive bulls and cantankerous cows manage to temper any aggression and irritability towards Argentinosaurus.
✦ Citipati & Struthiomimus
Both Citipati & Struthiomimus are highly regarded as companions by Apatosaurus, and their presence is welcomed around both pods and young nursery groups.
Their alertness and sharp alarm calls make them invaluable sentries, enabling Apatosaurus to have more rest periods and reduced vigilance at feeding grounds and sleep spots.
When herds have young and calves retreat into the undergrowth, both species are expected to remain nearby and follow them, helping watch over these hidden nursery groups and sounding alarm at the first sign of danger.
✦ Other herbivores
Apatosaurus are broadly tolerant of most other herbivorous species, but this tolerance is conditional and heavily dependent on space and resource availability.
Small tier herbivores are largely ignored - but species that move too erratically or linger too closely are soon met with warning bellows and irritable flicks of their tails.
Medium tier herbivores are tolerated so long as they do not interfere with food resources, or get in the way during migrations. Apatosaurus are not particularly careful where they step, and think nothing of treading on species smaller than them that they do not group with.
Should these smaller species be considered to be consuming too many resources, Apatosaurus begin barging in the way and utilising their bodies to block the other herbivores from berry bushes.
Large tier and other Apex tier herbivores are treated with firm neutrality. Apatosaurus refuse to yield space, and stand their ground if other large species attempt to crowd them or compete for food sources.
Apatosaurus have little patience for disorder and overly panicky species. As such, the sudden bolting of species such as Lambeosaurus and Parasaurolophus when faced with predators seems to agitate the sauropod, who may show bad tempered and irritable behavior when meeting these species the next time.
During the Dry Season, Apatosaurus' tolerance runs thin with all other species. They become highly food aggressive, and begin chasing away all non-groupables from water, feeding spots, and wallowing pits.
✦ Rhamphorhynchus
Alongside Citipati & Struthiomimus, Rhamphorhynchus is another species held in high regard by Apatosaurus.
Favored for their grooming rituals and ability to pick off pesky parasites, Apatosaurus welcomes the presence of these tiny pterosaurs and happily permits them to latch and perch on their bodies during both migrations and rest stops.
Individuals may subtly adjust their posture to accommodate them by lowering their heads, turning their vast bodies to the side and even settling onto the ground to provide easier access for grooming.
Calves are especially fascinated by Rhamphorhynchus, and often watch them closely while attempting to follow their movements through the undergrowth.
Struthiomimus have a natural resentment for Rhamphorhynchus, and often attempt to attack them if they are not latched onto the sides of an Apatosaurus companion. 
If aggressive calls or attack moves are issued towards a Rhamphorhynchus within the line of sight of an Apatosaurus by a Struthiomimus, the Apatosaurus may rush forward at the Struthiomimus with a crack of its whiplike tail, often startling the small sentry into completely avoiding Rhamphorhynchus in the future.
If the Struthiomimus persists, it may result in the sentry being entirely ousted from the herd with rumbling aggressive calls.
Bild
Apatosaurus are robust and not necessarily flighty. They are not bothered by many small predators but keep a watchful eye, and are quick to chase away any carnivores that begin posing a nuisance.
Larger carnivorous species (4+ Medium, or any number of Large and above) that appear to be moving - or lingering - too close to a pod are met with watchful tracking, typically instigated by bulls who move to the outer side of the pod and greater herd.
In the case of two Apex Carnivores, two bulls rush to the forefront to act as the primary defenders of the greater herd.
If an individual within a pod is attacked, another individual from the same pod, or their mate, may be their second defender.
✦ Escalation
Should a carnivore be deemed to be a threat - or show clear hunting intent - Apatosaurus begin moving close together with the rest of their pod, quickly shoving Adolescent calves, females, and older and more frail members behind bulls, who instinctively pace the outside.
One bull from each pod - or the matriarch, if no bulls are available - take it upon themselves to issue warning bellows and stomps, signifying their readiness to defend if necessary.
✦ During a hunt
When hunted, Apatosaurus defend only themselves, while the rest of the pod and herd move away from the engagement, keen not to be caught in any crossfire.
Only if a calf of Adolescent age is attacked does an Apatosaurus receive defenders. Relatives of the calf - always the mother and father, or other relatives if those are unavailable - up to a maximum of 2 adults may step forward to defend the adolescent.
Apatosaurus may attempt to charge and bluff charge at predators in attempts to deter them, raising their tail skyward to deliver sharp, ferocious lashes.
✦ Nursery Groups
Adults do not become involved in the defence of calves below Adolescent while they remain within their nursery group. Too large to safely navigate the dense forest, their involvement often proves more dangerous than protective, with a high risk of injuring the calves they intend to defend.
Calves, meanwhile, do not flee towards adults when attacked or if they spot predators. They rely on hiding to prevent a carnivore from hunting them - but if discovered, quickly scatter deeper into the heart of the forest.
Unlike adults, up to a maximum of 4 calves below Adolescent may work together to defend each other from predators. This includes the attacked individual and three defenders, who whip their tails and smack their heads to try and overwhelm the predators into forfeiting.
 
Bild
✦ Courtship
Courtship in Apatosaurus is initiated by females, with cows signalling their readiness during rest periods in between migrations. These signals are very obvious: cows move in slow, deliberate pacing patterns with their head raised skyward, holding the posture for extended periods as they wander through open spaces.
This display is sustained and purposeful, aiming to draw the attention of nearby bulls and signify their interest in nesting.
Even cows in lifelong pairbonds behave in this way - though focus their attention on performing beside their mate. Other bulls never attempt to court a cow in a lifelong pairbond.
Bulls respond by entering musth - a heightened sense of aggression and restlessness around cows. They separate from their birth pods to respond to these courtship advances.
Interested bulls begin behaving erratically. They charge frequently, whipping their tails and even stomping - a behavior that can easily injure others nearby, who quickly move to give space.
Should two bulls be interested in the same cow - a challenge is initiated:
✦ Bull Challenges
Challenges begin with parallel pacing, where both bulls move alongside one another, keeping close proximity while attempting to intimidate the other into backing down.
This escalates into further posturing displays, with bulls letting out long, rumbly warning growls, and the pacing turning into both bulls circling each other and maintaining eye contact.
If neither have backed down by this point, the challenge turns physical: bulls shove, hit and whip each other with their heads, necks and tails in a vicious - and very loud - battle between the sauropods.
This fight continues until one of the males reaches half health and is forced to withdraw. The loser may no longer challenge to court that particular cow again until the next time, but may try his luck in courting other cows - or nest with her if she still shows willing.
Other bulls, however, may step in to challenge the winner if they show interest as well.
Cows hold the ultimate decision. Though they notably prefer stronger and more aggressive males, cows may sometimes opt to nest with a loser bull. This decision is always respected, but may result in a temper tantrum display from the rejected bull.
Females uninterested in the advances of a particular bull simply move away from him, turning their backs in a clear signal that his advances are not welcomed.
Bulls only court one cow at a time. If accepted, the female lowers her head and nuzzles against the bull, who returns her affections, often resulting in the pair entwining their necks for a period.
✦ Same Sex Courtship
Courtship for those seeking a same sex partner is often less driven by hormones and a much more gentle experience.
At rest stops, those interested in courting another same sex individual begin to carry around items that they enjoy, such as shells, flowers, and gemstones.
These gifts are presented to individuals whom they deem to be suitable; this process may take some time for an individual to decide, but is done confidently.
Individuals who are interested in this trade gifts with the other, and the pair begin to walk alongside each other, softly crooning at one another.
If not interested, the individual will not place down their gift, and will instead turn their backs and gently walk away. No grudges are held following these separations.
✦ Nesting
Once all interested cows have courted successfully, the herd begins a migration to one of their dedicated nesting grounds: Volcano Island or Burned Forest. Apatosaurus instinctively nest in this location, where the warm sand helps to incubate their eggs, with the sauropods being simply too large to brood over a nest.
Eggs are laid in clusters, with multiple cows preferring to place their nests close together, positioned just on the border of thick foliage - a spot ideal for fresh hatchlings to scatter to for safety.
After placing their nests and laying their eggs, the herd moves on to rest and wait for their offspring to grow. In Riparia, they move to the hot springs area in Volcano Islands, and in Gondwa, they move deeper into Burned Forest.
Bulls stay with their courted female for the entirety of this period, leaving their natal pods to remain with the female.
✦ Parenthood
Apatosaurus are absent parents by necessity for the first few stages of a calf's life - but finally get the chance to parent them once calves reach adolescence, and make their journey to be reunited with their parents.
Both parents - if available - rush over to greet their young, whom they instinctively recognize through scent. Overjoyed to be united, they offer them soft, tender nuzzles and drape their necks over them protectively.
Once all calves are reunited (or adopted), the herd continues migrating, with calves eagerly indulged and doted on by parents as they travel alongside their parents.
✦ Offspring Maturity
By Sub-Adult, offspring no longer receive the protection of their parents and become fully included members of the pod. They stay within their natal pods unless circumstances change, forming deep friendships and bonds with other members of the pod.
With young now considered full grown, bulls return to their natal pods and part from their female mate. However - some individuals grow a deep bond with their female and form a lifelong bond, whereby the bull integrates into her pod permanently.
✦ Adoption
Apatosaurus same sex pairs are the most likely candidates that show interest in adopting orphaned calves. Despite this, calves are never entertained by these adults for adoption until they are at least Adolescent; otherwise, they are gently ushered away into thick foliage if the orphan attempts to follow the herd. 
Opposite-sex pairs and even singular individuals may also decide to adopt orphans, depending on personal preference.
If an orphan below Adolescent is encountered outside of the usual nesting grounds, adults interested in adopting the orphan may stay nearby to the thicker foliage area, keen to welcome the calf when it grows to Adolescent.
Bild
Older age brings a sense of frailty to Apatosaurus, with elders frequently suffering from brittle bones that are more prone to breaking after repeated migrations.
Elders often struggle to maintain the pace of the herd, frequently lagging behind during long journeys. Despite this, they make persistent efforts to keep up, driven by strong social bonds and familiarity with their pod.
Pods do not abandon their elderly. Movement may subtly slow to accommodate them - controlled by the matriarch, who more often than not is the elder individual in question -with family members remaining nearby and adjusting their positioning to ensure these individuals are not left behind.
Older Apatosaurus favour longer rest periods, often settling more frequently when the herd pauses between migrations, and sleeping for longer periods.
With old age comes a calmer temperament. Temper tantrums and shows of aggression are deeply subdued, and elder individuals become more tolerant in general.
✦ Death
When nearing the end of their life, Apatosaurus begin to fall behind the herd more noticeably, eventually forcing their pod to separate from the main group entirely.
Eventually, this slowness results in a full stop, with the elderly individual dropping down to rest and pass away peacefully.
The pod never leaves the individual's side during this period, and mourning behavior is frequently observed after an Apatosaurus passes.
✦ Death of a Matriarch
The death of a matriarch is a moment of deep sorrow for an Apatosaurus pod, and often results in the pod splitting or adjusting to a new matriarch. This position is never challenged for or fought over - instead, the next oldest female in the group steps forward to take the lead.
Sometimes, pods fracture into smaller, more closely related pods, especially if individuals are very distantly related to one another. Multiple matriarchs and pods sometimes form from the death of one, though they maintain strong relations and usually migrate side by side in the wider herd.
Bild
Apatosaurus Sub/Adults do not defend young under Adolescent.
Apatosaurus with dwarfism may still court and nest.
Bild
NA
RULE EXEMPTIONS
NA
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Apatosaurus are Apex Diurnal Terrestrial Herbivores.
Apatosaurus can group up to unlimited sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees.
Apatosaurus are tolerant.
Apatosaurus can have up to 1 in an engagement. Adolescents may be protected by 2 Adults who must be related to them. Hatchlings and juveniles may work together up to 4 to defend one another.
Apatosaurus rarely flees, and stands its ground.
Apatosaurus live in large, nomadic herds made up of smaller family groups known as pods, each led by a dominant matriarch. This matriarch is always the eldest female of the family, and carries a deep respect.
Bulls leave their birth pod to join a mate, while unrelated individuals drift between pods within the herd until they find a lifelong pairbond - or nest into their own pod.
Known for their fondness of mud wallows, Apatosaurus frequently coat themselves in mud for comfort and protection against biting insects, often making mud pools key location points during migrations.
Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 15-30-110-85 = 240 total
Combat Weight: 8000
Adjusted Stats:
⁨
- Armor increased to 1.3 from 1.1
- Combat weight increased to 8000 from 6500
- Max health increased to 2000 from 1500
⁩ 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.05.2026 03:32
Quick Links
Top
Growing up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Predator Reaction
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?