The following set of rules applies to our in-game server, and should be followed in tandem with our Discord Rules, which form part of our player Code of Conduct. ﻿ All waystones and in game caves have been disabled on this server.

When referring to body lengths, we use the standard measurement of 1 body length is equivalent to 1 Parasaurolophus body length from nose-tip to tail-tip. If you are playing a Giant species, please use common sense and move further away if it is not obvious that you are unengaged from a nearby conflict.
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 27.01.2026 18:43
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
1.1) Profiles always override server rules where there is a conflict.
1.2) You must follow species profiles. Minor behavioral changes to fit different personalities are fine, but a blatant disregard of the profile is not permitted.
1.2.1) Species acting wildly out of profile must be shunned by others.
 
1.3) The grouping & engagement limits specified in profiles is mandatory.
1.4) Activity schedules in each profile are mandatory. Your character must use their inactive time as a rest period (sleeping, sitting, relaxing), but may take part in social behaviors outlined in profile and walk short distances in the POI to eat or drink. Actions like migrating, hunting, and initiating challenges are limited to active hours.
1.4.1) Territorial creatures may patrol their territories in small amounts during their inactive period. They may not challenge for the right to claim a new territory, but may defend their current territory.
1.5) Players can travel the entire map, but may only court, nest, and claim territory in their preferred POIs.
 
1.6) Unless otherwise specified in profiles: hatchlings, juveniles and adolescents may form unlimited groups.
1.7) Herbivores and carnivores may not protect other species of the opposite diet at any time ("carebearing"/"mixpacking") unless otherwise stated in profile.
1.8) Act realistically in the game. Refer to ⁠What does "Realism Roleplay" me… for specifics.
 
1.9) This server features permadeath. If your character dies, it resets to hatchling and loses all relationships and mutations. Respawning as the character means treating it as a completely new character. Relationships may not be maintained by any party.
1.10) All hatchling, juvenile, and characters with the DR Yearling and DR Stunted skins, are cathemeral and have no tier.
1.10.1) If the offspring is protected, i.e. within 2 body lengths of an adult caregiver, and the adult is a size tier you cannot hunt, then the offspring cannot be hunted by you unless otherwise specified by profile.
1.10.1.1) This also applies to cross-species adoptions.
1.10.2) Adolescents are considered one tier below their adult tier. For example: an Adolescent Tyrannosaurus would be considered a Large.
1.11) All creatures may defend their personal space (a radius of 1 body length around them) if continuously aggressed, invaded or engaged with by others. A player must aggressive call :threaten_call: the invader at least once before attacking if not attacked themselves. When defending their personal space, they are not counted as an active defender.
1.11.1) When the invader leaves their personal space, attacks must stop.
1.12) Dynasty Realism features genetics and skin mutations. Rolling is only required if you want a mutation skin as your dominant (worn) skin. You may only roll once per character's lifetime. More info in this resource.
 
Bild
2.1) Global chat must only be used to ask for player names politely. Whispers should be used to politely discuss rulebreaks. This must be after an engagement, not during. 
2.1.1) Do not accuse players of rulebreaks in your message, you must ask for names only and speak further by /whisper. e.g. "name of the rex that killed a red achillo, please?"
2.1.2) Only one player from your group can make the name request.
 
2.2) You must add "nb" at the end of your request to indicate it's nothing bad if you just want to talk to the player, rather than point out a rulebreak. You may not say "potentially nb."
2.2.1) Players do not have to respond to "nb" requests if they don't want to.
2.3) Player(s) must reply to a name request issued in Global chat. You  must reply with a "." or any similar symbol.
2.3.1) If multiple requests are posted at the same time, you may add more detail to make it clear e.g. ". (rex)".
2.3.2) Do not add additional details e.g. “. but I was challenging you not hunting you”.
 
2.4) After giving your name, further communication must only be via /whisper.
2.4.1) Players who inform others of rulebreaks must be kind and aim to educate, especially if no loss has occurred.
2.5) Local chat may be used freely, so long as you abide by our discord rules for chat conduct and are not currently in an engagement.
 
2.6) If you type in Global chat by mistake, you must send another message with “wc” for “wrong chat”, no further clarification is needed.
2.7) If you notice another player misusing Global chat, you may whisper them to advise them of the rules, but you are not allowed to respond to them in Global chat unless you are a staff member.
 
Bild
3.1) An engagement begins when an attack move is used within one body length of a target, even if the attack does not land.
3.2) All species can defend themselves during an engagement. 
3.2.1) Some species can have defenders. The defenders must be within 10 bodylengths of the engagement within 30 seconds of the engagement starting, and must join in immediately.
3.2.2) After a hunt has been started, hunters must be within 10 bodylengths of the engagement within 30 seconds of the engagement starting. They must join the engagement immediately.
3.2.3) If your species fears a tier or specific species of dinosaur or cannot hunt it due to engagement limits, you should attempt to flee if engaged by the target and cannot turn that engagement into a hunt.
3.2.3.1) This does not apply to contests or challenges, and you may always defend your resource.
3.3) Active defenders cannot be swapped out during an engagement.
3.3.1) Engaged individuals that lose line of sight of the other party for 1 minute cannot return to resume the engagement. This applies to both sides of the engagement.
3.4) All carnivore groups may only engage in 1 engagement at a time, unless specified in profile. In the case that a territorial creature is challenged by two different species simultaneously, this rule does not apply.
 
3.5) You may not join a group or invite players to your group during an engagement, regardless of where they are on the map.
3.6) Terrestrial species should not be standing in water deeper than their ankles for more than 15 seconds throughout an engagement.
3.6.1) Terrestrial and aerial species that are being attacked by a semi-aquatic from the water are exempt from this rule.
3.7) Semi-aquatic species may use water freely. They can escape into water from terrestrial or aerial hunters during an engagement, but dying in water as a result of injuries from the engagement is considered body denial.
 
3.8)  Terrestrial and aerial species cannot attack other species while either are swimming in water, to prevent body denial. This applies to both hunters and prey. The only exception to this is if these species are being attacked by a semi-aquatic species while swimming, or if a terrestrial or aerial creature damages a semi-aquatic creature with an area of effect attack. 
3.8.1)  If the semi-aquatic species dies within water from being attacked in this scenario, they are exempt from body denial.
3.9) After any engagement, a 15-minute timer applies. During this time, you cannot engage or stalk the same species. This applies to both parties. If you’ve killed and eaten but are still hungry, you can hunt a different species. The timer only affects the species involved in the previous encounter.
3.9.1) When defending territory, territorial species are exempt from 15 minute timers when it comes to rivals. Please see individual profiles.
 
3.10) If you witnessed an engagement and wish to contest for the body, there is a 5 minute timer after the engagement concludes before you can contest.
3.11) During the 2 minute restart timer (both before and after restart), all combat must stop immediately.
3.12) You may not use teleport commands/shop items during combat.
3.13) Those not directly involved in the engagement must move at least 10 body lengths away from the fight, or out of reach of the engagement.  These unengaged individuals may be hunted by other predators, without it being considered third partying.
 
3.14) You may not third party engagements if you have a timer with either species in the engagement.
3.15) All typical engagement rules apply to third partying.
3.15.1) You must be able to hunt species you attempt to third party.
3.16) Hunters may take advantage of challenges (courtship, territory, food bushes, etc) between herbivores without it being considered third partying.
3.17) ONLY the following species may third party during an engagement: Deinosuchus, Concavenator, Hatzegopteryx, Quetzalcoatlus, Sarcosuchus, Spinosaurus, Tylosaurus.
3.18) Semi-aquatic and aquatic species cannot third party other semi-aquatic and aquatic species.
3.19) Hunts can continue by the original hunters even if third partied. Hunters may also defend their hunt and themselves from third partying species if able.
 
Bild
4.1) To start a hunt or body contest inside preferred POIs, a hunting party must have at least 1 hunter at 75% hunger or less (at the top of the stomach icon). The hunter with enough hunger must log their hunger with the !hunger command in Local or by sending the percentage in Group chat within 15 minutes before initiating a hunt or body contest.
4.2) To start a hunt outside preferred POIs, all hunters must have hunger at 35% or less (just above the bottom of the stomach icon). All members of a hunting party must use the !hunger command in local and type their result in Group Chat within 15 minutes before initiating a hunt. 
4.2.1) After a successful hunt in a non-preferred POI, the entire hunting party has a 15 minute timer before they can hunt in any non-preferred POI again.
 
4.3) Hatchlings, juveniles or any Albino skin (including other skins that appear Albino), and those on deathscars may be hunted at any time of day, regardless of activity schedule. 
4.3.1) An individual on deathscars is considered to have no size tier, and may be hunted by any carnivore.
4.3.2) Hunts can continue if they start during the hunter's active hours and extend into their inactive hours. e.g. Diurnal species hunting into the night.
4.3.3) Hatchlings and juveniles may be hunted at any time, even if they have adults present.          ᴘᴀꜱꜱᴡᴏʀᴅ: sunfish         You must be able to hunt the adult's tier during your activity schedule to hunt protected offspring outside of activity schedule.
4.4) You may not start a hunt if there is an unclaimed body within your line of sight. The body should be claimed first. AI corpses do not count.
4.5) During an active hunt, hunting parties must remain focused on the original target species. Hunters must forfeit before switching to hunt another species, unless the hunt is occurring within a mixed-species herd or group - in which case hunters may target any species that is part of that same group.
4.5.1) When switching targets, a 15 minute timer applies to any species that traded hits during the engagement.
4.6) Our stance and description of body denial - Do not make your body unreachable when on heavy deathscars or bleeding to death during an engagement.  This includes jumping or moving along cliffs, running into water, or dying in places where your body can’t be reached by the species hunting you.
 
4.7) Prey can cross water during a hunt but cannot go back and forth to tire out the hunter. You may only cross water if you have enough stamina to make it across without drowning.
4.8) A hunt ends when:
4.8.1) A body drops on either side of the engagement.
4.8.1.1) A body that drops by a third party during a hunt does not count. The hunter may choose to claim the body instead and stop the hunt, but is under no obligation to do so.
4.8.2) A 2 call :friendly_call: from any hunter in the hunting party ends the hunt for the entire party. In carnivore vs. carnivore hunts, both parties must issue a 2 call :friendly_call: to end it.
4.8.2.1) If a party forfeits, they cannot restart the hunt (but can still defend themselves).
4.8.2.2) Herbivores with the Headstrong tag in their profile can ignore a forfeit from their hunter, and may continue attacking until the predator flees the POI, or line of sight.
4.8.2.3) In carnivore x carnivore hunts, the hunted party may continue the hunt despite a forfeit from their hunters, regardless of activity schedule and hunger requirements.
4.8.3) When all hunters have lost sight of the prey for 1 minute.
4.8.4) When any member of the hunting party touches healing water at Hunter's Thicket or Hot Springs.
4.8.4.1) During a hunt, prey may not run into healing water. This includes semi-aquatic species.
4.8.4.2) Prey should not try to bait the hunting party into entering the healing water.
4.8.5) When no attack has been made within a body length of the prey in 10 minutes or more.
 
4.9) Any hunter during a hunt that reaches heavy deathscars automatically forfeits the hunt for that hunter, and must move 10 body lengths from the engagement.  The only exception to this is if the prey is also on heavy deathscars.
4.9.1) The prey does not need to stop engaging unless the hunter has issued a forfeit call. A forfeit call from a hunter ends the engagement for all hunters.
4.10) Herbivores may attempt to eat/drink while being hunted. Carnivores are not permitted to stop to eat, but may attempt to drink during a hunt. 
4.10.1) Any member of the hunting party that eats during an engagement forfeits the hunt for themselves individually.
4.10.2) If the hunter has the ability to take a meat chunk from their living prey, they may use this ability without forfeiting the hunt.
4.10.3) If a carnivore is the one being hunted, they may attempt to eat/drink freely.
4.11) Any member of the hunting party that sleeps during an engagement forfeits the hunt for themselves individually, and must move 10 body lengths from the engagement.  Sitting down to regain stamina is allowed.
 
Bild
5.1) When a body drops, combat between both parties must stop immediately.
5.1.1) When a body drops, the party who does not claim the body must move 10+ body lengths away from it.
5.1.2) Herbivores cannot claim bodies. In an engagement between a carnivore and a herbivore, the carnivore claims the body.
5.1.2.1)  If the engagement was between carnivores and herbivores, and 2 bodies drop, only 1 body may be claimed by the carnivore.
5.1.2.2) If the engagement was between carnivores and herbivores, and was a challenge for territory when a carnivore body drops, the carnivore group may not claim the body and must leave the POI.
5.1.3) If both sides are carnivores, the winning side claims the body. 
5.1.3.1) If both sides are carnivores, and two bodies drop at the same time, each side claims the opposite party's body.
5.1.3.2) If one side is wiped out, the other side claims only 1 body.
5.2) All players that have a claimed body have body down protection. They cannot be attacked without a proper body down contest.
5.2.1) If you witnessed any part of the hunt, you cannot contest for the body until the 5 minute timer is up.
5.2.1.1) If third partied by an aerial species you may immediately challenge for the body when the hunt is over.
5.2.2) You cannot ask to give up the body (or offer the body) to others in chat. You must wait to be contested, and can freely forfeit the challenge with a 2 call :friendly_call: if you wish to give up the body.
5.2.3) You cannot wait for a player's body down to despawn in order to hunt them.
 
5.3) Once you have claimed a body, all members of the group must stay with the body until it despawns.
5.3.1) No group members may quest.
5.3.3) You may not body chunk by taking meat chunks of the body to make it expire faster. Any chunks taken must be held by the carnivore and eaten.
5.3.4) If a group member is at 35% thirst or lower, they may leave the body individually (ensuring at least one member remains at the body) to get water. They do not have body down protection when getting water and must return immediately afterwards.
5.3.5) If solo with a body, and at 35% thirst or lower, you may leave the body to get water. You do not have body down protection when getting water, and must return afterwards. Your body may get claimed by others during your absence.
5.3.6) One member of a group may take a chunk from the body to fill a nest or bring the meat to offspring that cannot leave their nest yet. You do not have body down protection when doing so, and must return immediately afterwards. You may do this repeatedly. Your body may get claimed by others during your absence if you are the only one at the body.
 
5.4) Only scavengers and those with specific instances in their profile may scavenge from a body. 
5.4.1) You must make contact with the body visually to take meat or eat from the body. Aerial scavengers must be landed.
5.4.2) Scavengers cannot be chased more than 1 body length of the corpse, and this does not count as an engagement.
5.4.3) If you take damage from a carnivore whilst attempting to scavenge from the body, you cannot continue to scavenge that body and must move on. This does not count as an engagement.
5.4.4) If you are killed whilst trying to scavenge, the owner of the body down claims your body as well.
5.4.5) If you have been challenged off of a kill, you cannot scavenge from it.
5.4.6) If you are on a timer with the species that owns the body, you cannot scavenge from it.
5.4.7) Taking a trophy from a body that is not yours is considered scavenging.
5.5) You cannot gift food to other species unless specified in the profile.
 
Bild
6.1) Challenges may only be done during a species active schedule. Species may defend their resource at any time.
6.2) You cannot start a challenge if you are on a 15 minute timer with that species. This does not apply to defending your resource.
6.3) You must respond within 10 seconds of the challenge being issued. This can be an acceptance of the challenge or a forfeit. You may not stand out of reach of the challenging species in order to ignore them.
6.3.1) To accept a challenge, you must respond with an aggressive call :threaten_call:﻿ before engaging the challenging party.
6.3.2) To forfeit a challenge, you must affectionate call :friendly_call:﻿ at the challenging party, and move away from the challenged resource.
6.4) All engagement rules apply to challenges.
6.4.1) If you cannot legally engage that species (or fear that species), you cannot initiate a challenge on them.
6.4.1.1) This does not apply to defending your resource if challenged by others.
6.5) A challenge ends when either a body drops, either side leaves the contested resource, or one member of either party affectionate calls :friendly_call: to forfeit the fight. The opposing party wins the challenge.
6.5.1) If either party in a challenge flees until they lose LOS of the other party for 1 minute, this is considered a forfeit and the other party wins the challenge even if they lost LOS.
6.6) Carnivores may not reply to challenge calls with a hunt.
 
6.7) Territory challenges must begin with 1 broadcast call :broadcast_call:, followed by 3 x  aggressive calls :threaten_call: in succession from the challenging group to the owner of the territory before an engagement can begin. You must give players 10 seconds to respond to a challenge before attacking.
6.7.1) Territory challenges can only be initiated by creatures that are listed as territorial.
6.7.2) If you lose or forfeit a territory challenge, you must flee the POI immediately. If not sprinting, you must continuously forfeit call (:friendly_call:﻿ or :fear_emote:﻿, per profile) to show the winning party that you have acknowledged their right to the territory, and are attempting to leave. You cannot return to the POI for 15 minutes.
6.7.2.1) Failure to leave the POI in a timely manner can result in the territorial species continuing to attack or aggress your character. You cannot sit down to regain stamina, and must continue moving until out of the POI or territory.
6.7.2.2) If you successfully challenged a species out of your territory and they return within the 15 minute timer, you are able to attack (and kill) on sight.
6.7.2.3) If you win a territory challenge, you must stay within the territory for 30 minutes before relocating and challenging for another POI - unless successfully challenged out by another party within your timer.
6.7.2.4) If a territory challenge is between a herbivore and a carnivore, and a carnivore dies, the rest of the carnivore's group may not claim the body, and must leave the POI. Otherwise, they may be attacked.
6.7.3) Territorial species can challenge nomadic or sedentary species to force them out of their territory if they win.
6.7.3.1) If a territorial species loses the challenge, it keeps its territory but must tolerate the other species for 15 minutes.
6.7.3.2) Nomadic and sedentary species do not have to remain in the POI for 30 minutes after winning a territory challenge.
6.7.4) Players with a body down cannot be challenged out of a territory until the body despawns, unless profiles specify otherwise.
 
6.8) Challenges for nesting sites are the same as territory challenges. The "territory" is considered the nesting site.
6.8.1) A nesting site is considered to be either: a cave, burrow/den, visual nest placed in the world, or a particularly dense piece of undergrowth for good cover. Some species may share nesting sites; please refer to individual profiles.
6.8.1.1) A nesting site territory is only considered a defendable resource "territory" when the creature has live offspring in the nest.
6.8.1.2) Nesting site challenges can be initiated by any species, not only territorial ones.
6.8.2) If losing a nesting site challenge, you cannot re-challenge for that nesting site and must move on. This is reset once offspring of the owner of the nesting site have aged up or they have left the nesting site.
6.8.3) You may not destroy other players' nests unless you have successfully contested for their nesting site. If no one is present at the nest, you must wait 10 minutes to see if the owner returns before you destroy it.
6.8.3.1) Nests that end up accidentally damaged or destroyed during an engagement where the target was sitting on top of the nest are exempt from this rule.
 
6.9) Resource or body contests are a challenge for a body down/player corpse, water source, or herbivore food resource. They must begin with 1 aggressive call :threaten_call:, followed immediately after by a bite or aggressive move. You must allow the owner of the resource 10 seconds to reply. If they do not reply, you may attack.
6.9.1) Only carnivores can contest for a body.
6.9.2) Only herbivores can challenge for food bushes or herbivorous food sources.
6.9.3) Resource contests must happen during the species' activity schedule. Where they are for body contests, the challenger must match hunting hunger requirements for the POI.
6.9.4) The defenders must give at least 3 x aggressive calls :threaten_call: to show the resource is being defended.
6.9.5) You cannot eat, drink or take a chunk from the resource being contested for.
6.9.6)  A contest ends or is won when:
6.9.6.1) Either party let out a friendly call :friendly_call:. The opposing party will then claim the resource.
6.9.6.2) A body drops. The body is claimed (alongside the original body if during a body contest) by the opposing party.
6.9.6.3) One member of one party intentionally leaves the area. The opposite party will claim the resource.
6.9.7) If this is a body contest, and the body being challenged for despawns before or during the challenge, the challenger may turn it into a hunt.
6.9.8) If you lose a resource or body contest, you must move out of line of sight of the resource and the owners of the resource.
6.9.9) You should not move further than 10 body lengths from the contested resource during the engagement.
6.9.10) Challenges for herbivorous food or water should not be fatal. The loser should move on and find a different source of food or water.
 
Bild
7.1) Logging out during any engagement is not allowed and is considered combat logging.
7.2) Meshing into the terrain during an engagement is not allowed. Meshing is determined as having 30% or more of your body clipping into the terrain for at least 10 seconds throughout the entire engagement, so it cannot be attacked.
7.2.1) You may not use an offensive ability (such as a bite, claw attack, etc) through rocks or objects to attack a player.
7.3) Any usage of bots or scripting is prohibited.
7.4) Metagaming is not allowed. Metagaming includes, but is not limited to: using discord information, information gathered by playing another character, information found in chat, stream sniping, to locate and hunt other players.  This includes switching to revenge kill your own killer.
7.4.1) If you return to the POI where you were killed or intentionally interact with the same individuals, within 30 minutes of your death, this is considered metagaming. Following a death, you must avoid both the POI you died in and the individuals involved for 30 minutes.
7.4.1.1) However, players may rejoin their previous group as a new character or by being nested back in. This exception only applies to rejoining your own group (and POI if applicable), and does not permit you to intentionally interact with the individuals involved in your previous death, until the 30 minute timer has expired.
7.4.2) You must not target. Targeting is going out of your way to attack the same group or species consistently. Some forms of targeting include, but is not limited to;
7.4.2.1) Attempting to hunt a group 3 times consecutively, when there are other prey items available, once your hunting timer has finished;
7.4.2.2) A species is played with the intention to consistently hunt the same species or players multiple times;
7.4.2.3) Returning to the same place, at the same session times, in order to engage other players;
7.4.2.4) Or other cases, as determined by staff discretion, with sufficient evidence to support regular, continuous targeting.
7.4.3) Alternate characters may not be used to scout out locations (see: metagaming) of other players, and may not be used to feed yourself on another character.
 
7.5) You cannot use any exploit to body deny.
7.6) Finding any loopholes in the rules for personal gain is considered an exploit and prohibited.
7.7) You should not deliberately glitch/trap a player into the terrain so that they may not defend themselves or attack. Step back and allow the other player to re-position, and then continue the fight.
7.7.1) Surrounding a player to attack them does not count.
7.8) You may not use teleports outside of your dinosaur's active hours.
 
Bild
8.1) Mixpacking is not allowed for carnivores. Mixed grouping is allowed for certain herbivores as per profiles.
8.1.1) If in a mixed herbivore grouping, you should not use certain abilities if you have those that buff a group overall. Specific abilities are listed on individual profiles.
8.2) Subspecies can only be changed if you have mistakenly chosen the wrong one to match the species dimorphism, or to follow a behavior laid out in profile. You may never change your character's sex.
8.3) You must use realistic skins where possible as specified in profiles. Where dimorphism is mandatory, you must follow subspecies, behavioral and color dimorphism. If it is optional and you choose not to follow the dimorphism, your character may be considered "low testosterone male" or "high testosterone female" and may be rejected during courtships. This varies depending on the profile.
 
8.4) Cannibalism and infanticide is not permitted unless specified in the profile.
8.4.1) Infanticide (killing of same-species offspring) is considered an engagement, and must abide by engagement rules, unless otherwise specified in profile.
8.5) Players are expected to use common sense and act responsibly in all situations. If unsure about something, consider whether it aligns with realism, the spirit of fair play, and respect for others.
8.5.1) If someone is rulebreaking against you, you cannot rulebreak in retaliation.
8.6) Ensure that you abide by our Discord rules in game as well as in Discord.
8.7) Simulating the act of "mating" in game is not permitted.
 
Bild
9.1) Courting may only be performed as described in profiles.
9.1.1) Ensure to follow the profile in order to court realistically. Unrealistic courting should be rejected.
9.1.2) Do not knowingly commit incest.
9.1.3) For some profiles, infanticide (killing of same-species offspring) can be used to reset the nesting timer. Please refer to profiles.
9.2) A nesting site must be claimed or placed after courting before offspring can be born. This must be in the species' preferred POIs.
 
9.3) Nesting can only be done between opposite sexes and adults. Certain species allow same sex pairs to adopt and court. Both parents must be online and alive to post a nesting post.
9.3.1) Once a courting is successful and a nesting site has been claimed, a nesting post must be made within 30 minutes.
9.3.2) You cannot nest again if you have biological offspring in game that are adolescent or below.
9.3.3) Nesting timers apply. You cannot nest indefinitely nor exceed egg limits without shop perks. Refer to profiles for species sex specific timers.
9.3.4) You should stay for a minimum of 30 minutes after hatching offspring.
9.3.5) If the nest has been posted, and the parent who did not post the nesting post dies, offspring may be brought to the nest.
9.4) Nesting posts must not be deleted.
9.4.1) Nesting posts expire after 30 minutes. Eggs cannot be claimed after the nest expires, and parents should send invites as soon as possible, if not in an engagement.
9.4.2) Biological relationships between characters are only established via nesting.
9.4.3) You may ask offspring not to quest, to resemble their parents, to roll/not roll on the bots, and to keep chat to a minimum.
 
9.5) When taking an egg, you must be ready to be invited and must be in game.
9.5.1) We will not reinstate growth if you claim an egg and are teleported whilst on the wrong species.
9.5.2) You are required to stay for a minimum of 30 minutes after taking an egg. This timer begins as soon as you are in the nest in-game.
9.5.3) Do not take multiple eggs at once, or ask parents to hold an egg spot for your friend.
9.5.4) Do not remove a hatchling from a nest unless in the following circumstances: you are uncomfortable with the player, the hatchling took an egg and is not available in game for teleportation within 5 minutes, or you see the hatchling trying to join multiple nests at a time.
9.5.5) If a parent dies, they may take an egg in their nest. Parents may not take eggs from their own nests if they are living.
9.6) Offspring may be abandoned (or killed if the species commits infanticide) by their parents if:
9.6.1) There is specific behavior outlined in the profile.
9.6.2) The offspring is behaving unrealistically or outside of profile.
9.6.3) The offspring is not following the rules outlined in the nest.
 
9.7) All nestings must be logged in the appropriate nesting channel for the server the nesting occurred on.
9.7.1) You may not use the nesting channel to post a nest if you are two same sex individuals and you wish to adopt. The looking-for channel may be used instead.
9.7.2) If you are adopting an orphan, you must meet them in game first and adopt them into your nest second. You cannot teleport an adoptee via the nest feature.
9.8) In-game nests ("vanilla nests") may be placed as decorative/resting areas without offspring.
9.9) Nesting may only happen after successful courting in game, and a proper post or bot post has been logged with both parents information.
 
Bild
Quick Links
Top
1) Creature Profile Rules
2) Chat Rules
3) Engagement Rules
4) Hunting Rules
5) Body Down Rules
6) Challenge & Body Contesting Rules
7) Exploiting Rules
8) General Rules
9) Nesting Rules