Megalania
    "Meg"
Megalania is a medium cathemeral predator that inhabits many different types of terrain across Gondwa. Split into two specific variants - arid & temperate - this species has different populations, reflected in different colors and patterns. Both variants are highly aggressive to one another. These predators are solitary, but may tolerate some company - though this varies between individuals, and variants.

⁨
Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Kittyful
Includes ideas from: Toxonomy
Photo: Dawningg
Profile inspired by komodo dragons (their closest living relative) and nile monitors.
⁩

Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 28.08.2025 23:30
Overview
Bild
Medium Cathemeral Terrestrial & Semi-Aquatic Carnivore
Megalania are solitary.
Megalania are sedentary. Males form a small territory around a female when nesting.
Megalania have a tolerant nature.
Megalania are scavengers.
Megalania cannibalize albino and tolerate melanistic individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Megalania include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

PROFILE SPECIFIC UNIQUE FEATURE
Megalania have regional variants.
See Physical Dimorphism for information.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
1 Sub/Adult
Unlimited Offspring (with mother only)
Megalania does not adopt.

Megalania may temporarily group up to 2-5 Sub/Adults in order to work together to take down Apex prey. This is known as a mob.
This group disbands as soon as a hunt is lost, or a body is consumed.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Megalania can have 1 in an engagement.
Mothers defend their grouped offspring under Sub-Adult.
Megalania can hunt up to Large tier.
Megalania may form a temporary mob of 2-5 individuals in order to hunt Apex prey. These individuals do group in game, and work together to bring down the prey and share in the kill afterwards.
If a Megalania forfeits during this mob hunt, they cannot share in the kill, and must leave the group.
Adolescent Megalania do not assist with their parents’ hunts.
Solo Adolescent Megalania may attempt to hunt Small tier.
Preferred Prey
Megalania may attempt to scavenge from corpses at their own risk. If aggressed or attacked, they must give up the scavenging, and either contest for the body or move on.
If there is a scavenging opportunity, Megalania attempt to scavenge first, before hunting.
Megalania are highly attracted to movement, and target any species of Large tier and below.
Megalania do not cannibalize other adults of their variant, but may cannibalize ungrouped offspring of Adolescent and below.
Megalania cannibalize other adults of the opposite variant. Arid variant adults may hunt temperate variant adults, and vice versa.
In rare instances, mothers may cannibalize their own young. See more under Courtship & Parenthood.
Megalania may eat Metriacanthosaurus bodies without suffering any averse side effects.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 5 🥚﻿ per 1 hour.
Megalania nest anywhere in their preferred POIs, and opt to decorate their nests with thick foliage to keep them hidden - especially from other Megalania.
Megalania do not form same-sex pairs.
Megalania females sometimes reproduce asexually through parthenogenesis. 
They produce a maximum of 2 🥚 at this time, that are always male. ♂️
 
Physical Dimorphism
Megalania has subspecies dimorphism. Colors determine a Megalania's variant.
This profile does not have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Females are slimmer than males.
Suitable subspecies include: Varius
♂️ Males are larger and bulkier than females.
Suitable subspecies include: Teiidae, Priscus
Physical dimorphism for Megalania is mandatory.

VARIANTS
Arid variants are primarily warm colors, such as reds, browns, yellows and oranges.
Temperate variants are cooler and more desaturated colors. Greens, blues, greys are common.
These variants inhabit different regions. See Preferred POI for more information.

Dimorphism & Variant Examples
 
Arid Variants
Bild
Temperate Variants
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Baby Megalania hatch fully independent from their parents, armed with sharp claws and a strong instinct for survival. From the moment they scurry free from their eggs, they have little need for parental care, and are immediately capable of hunting small critters and prey to feed themselves.
Offspring may group with their mother and each other until they reach Sub-Adult.
While Megalania are not nurturing or maternal in the traditional sense, mothers remain in the general vicinity of the nesting area while her offspring are young, loosely monitoring to ensure predators do not raid the nest.
Offspring do not form any particular bonds with their mother - and almost never encounter their father - but sometimes develop a loose friendship with their clutchmates.
Baby Megalania, like adults, are incredibly driven by movement. A flash of motion prompts them to chase, sinking their tiny fangs into the object if they can catch it - but often promptly letting go.
Offspring do not vocalize often, but explore the world carefully, "tasting" objects and new experiences with a flick of their tongue. They often stand up on their hind legs, turning their heads around to get a better view of interesting objects.
Social interaction begins early, though how it manifests depends heavily on variant:
Temperate variant offspring are more tolerant of each other. While they maintain independence, they share space with their siblings peacefully. Temperate juveniles initiate mock hunts on one another, using short sprints and nips to engage in rudimentary play.
Arid variant offspring are more aloof. While they tolerate a sibling nearby, they avoid unnecessary contact, and are more likely to respond to mock aggression with stillness and warning hisses. Arid offspring explore independently, preferring sunny rocks to bask on alone.
Cannibalism from other adults is a constant background risk - even from their mother. Though she largely ignores her young, any offspring of Adolescent or below that is significantly injured - or especially bold during feeding - may be treated as prey. Offspring learn to keep a respectful distance when their mother is feeding, or otherwise irritable.
The nest site is abandoned when offspring reach midway through Juvenile, and the mother may start to travel to another POI. Offspring are expected to keep up - though at a reasonable distance behind - and scurry after their mother, hoping to benefit from her kills.
By adolescence, Megalania show more independence from their mother and siblings, though do stay within the general area, eager to scavenge from each other's kills where possible.
At Sub-Adult, Megalania disperse entirely, leaving the group from both their siblings and mother.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Megalania that spawn into the world without a parent fare no differently to those with a mother present. They are immediately driven by instinct, and scurry out of the nest to locate their first requirement - food.
Orphaned Arid variants are especially reclusive. They avoid open ground unless necessary, spending their time hugging cliffsides, fallen logs, and rocky areas for cover. They learn fast that visibility is dangerous, and often freeze in coverage when they hear a worrying sound.
They are more aggressive when approached, and may bluff charge or snap if cornered - even at Juvenile age.
Temperate variant orphans, while also wary, are slightly more explorative and curious in their environments. They trail behind other creatures briefly - at a safe distance - and show more boldness in investigating claimed carcasses, or basking spots used by others.
Temperate orphans flee when threatened, until they feel able to defend themselves, and scurry back into the undergrowth for safety.
Both variants are fully capable of surviving without their mother's presence. They begin scavenging early, using their speed and agility to dart away from other aggressive carnivores after snatching a bite.
Social interaction is rare between orphans, but those that hatched together often stay together until Sub-Adult for safety. Unrelated orphans never group together in game.
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 28.08.2025 23:37
Bild
Megalania are a solitary carnivorous species that inhabit different biomes, quietly stalking to hunt prey.
While they often move slowly and observe their surroundings, they are highly sensitive to movement. A rustling bush or flash of motion can provoke them into immediate pursuit, racing in the direction of the movement.
This reflexive drive to chase is especially noticeable in juveniles, who often charge at anything that moves. Adults display more restraint, but the instinct remains, and sudden movement is always investigated.
Megalania rely heavily on their senses. They constantly flick their tongue to taste the air, gathering scent particles to understand their surroundings.
When particularly intrigued or uncertain, Megalania rear up onto their hind legs, turning their heads back and forth to get a better view.
Megalania have variants, based in different POIs on the map. Arid variants are native to dry scrubland and deserted areas, while temperate variants inhabit wetter areas, such as woodlands, swamps, and river systems.
Regardless of variant, all Megalania enjoy swimming, and are capable of diving below the depths to catch fish or hunt small prey. They regularly soak their bodies in puddles of water, and can be spotted sleeping or basking beside a riverbank or water source.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Megalania are very lazy, and spend a lot of time either cooling down in shade, warming up in the sun, or floating in water.
Their favorite spots to sunbathe are rocks, and they will often choose dark, muddy spots underneath or beside the roots of trees to cool down.
Megalania most often rest immediately after a strenuous hunt, eating, or during highest and lowest temperature periods during the day. This allows them to regulate their body temperature and also digest their food.
Megalania who are disrupted from their rest may respond with aggression or a venomous bite, at which point they will quickly rush away if not interested in hunting the species.
 
Bild
Megalania are solitary, but not necessarily aggressive towards others of the same variant as them. While they do not form structured groups, individuals of the same variant tolerate one another's presence, especially in basking zones, or when prey sources are abundant.
Temperate Megalania are more socially relaxed in comparison to Arid variants. Though they remain solitary, they are more tolerant of other adults settling beside them at rest spots. Two or three can be commonly spotted resting together by river banks, flicking their tongues lazily.
Adults that rest together do not group together in game.
Arid Megalania, by contrast, are more defensive of their personal space. While they do not hunt others of their variant, they demand a wider berth from others, hissing their annoyance if other adults get too close.
They form no social bonds, even between clutchmates or parents and offspring, but may show more tolerance to particular individuals. Those who have been in each other's presence for a long time may grow more accustomed to one another.
Nesting pairs form a temporary alliance until offspring hatch. See more in Courtship & Parenthood.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Albinos are universally cannibalized by all variants, and must be on their guard at all times.
Melanistics are considered Arid variants, which puts them at risk if they hatch into a Temperate variant nest.
Temperate melanistics become chased out of temperate POIs, and are forced to adopt the arid POIs.
Many of them continue to show more social behavior, often prompting rejection from arid variants, though sometimes are tolerated - depending on individual.
Temperate melanistics learn over time that temperate variants reject them, and eventually end up courting arid variants. They are accepted by them as mates.
This is the only cross-variant courtship that can occur, and only because melanistics are considered arid.
Bild
All Megalania are relatively tolerant to one another of the same variant, but differ slightly in their tolerance levels.
Same-sex aggression is sometimes seen at the Hot Springs courting grounds. See Courtship & Parenthood for more information.
In addition, males defend a radius of 5 body lengths around a female when nesting together. They challenge out other Megalania from this radius.
Arid Megalania require more personal space than others, and are particularly defensive over prime basking spots.
Temperate Megalania, by contrast, are more passive and may share space with others without immediate hostility. All tolerance has limits though, and even temperate variants become irritable if they feel overly crowded by others of their species.
✦ Disputes
Disputes between Megalania always begin with exaggerated posturing and vocalizations to try and intimidate their rival into submission.
These reptiles arch their necks, shake their heads from side to side, and snarl out warning hisses. This is often followed by a slight raise of their bodies, and a threatening roar issued directly into their opponent's face.
If the rival concedes, they simply scurry away quickly before the other attacks.
If the rival is not intimidated, they mirror the gestures back at the opponent, escalating the confrontation.
When neither individual backs down, this devolves into a physical brawl - they snap and rip at each other's flesh, continuing until one is driven off in a panic.
✦ Co-Scavenging
Megalania do not tolerate other scavengers at their kills - including those of the same species. The only exception is when they have worked together in a mob, or a mother begrudgingly tolerating her offspring once she has had her fill.
This does not stop many Megalania attempting to scavenge from one another, resulting in frequent disputes and aggression.
✦ Inter-Variant Aggression
Megalania do not tolerate other variants in their preferred POIs. If an arid variant ventures into a temperate's preferred POIs, the temperates will attempt to challenge them out, and vice versa.
This is fought one on one, but additional Megalania may lay in wait to watch the scuffle, ready to step in and issue a challenge themselves if the rival variant wins.
If hungry, Megalania may even hunt an opposite variant that venture into their POIs.
The only exception is Hot Springs - a universal courting ground for Megalania of both variants. In this region, both variants ignore each other, and do not engage.
Bild
Megalania are largely passive and sometimes even curious of other species, both carnivore and herbivore alike. They sometimes can be seen standing and observing a new encounter, or flicking their tongues at the air near something of interest.
However, they do not go out of their way to seek out or tolerate them beyond passing interest. Megalania defend their personal space from others, and will not tolerate overly bullyish species of a similar size - or smaller - that try to oust them.
They may respond with aggression - or simply opt to flee - depending on their own preferences.
Megalania are highly driven by motion, and can burst into chase if a creature makes sudden movement. This is not necessarily a hunting behavior, but instinctual, and can lead Megalania into unfortunate situations with unwitting species.
✦ Compsognathus & Rhamphorhynchus
Megalania have no symbiotic relationship with other species, but sometimes tolerate the tiny scavenger species Compsognathus and Rhamphorhynchus when they are basking.
These tiny species have nimble snouts, capable of picking off dead scales and pests, which helps them in the shedding process.
However, Megalania will not hesitate to hunt either species if hungry.
Bild
Megalania firstly enjoy scavenging - preferring the easier option where possible - but are skilled and adept hunters, sometimes capable of taking down prey up to Large tier alone.
They opt to ambush where possible, skulking in bushes, foliage and rocky areas to remain hidden. They are low to the ground, and ambush is often a simple task for Megalania.
When a hunt is initiated, they pursue for a long time, employing an endurance hunting tactic. They only give up when the likelihood of success seems low, or if they lose interest.
Megalania do not hunt other adults of their species, unless they are a different variant to them.
However, they will hunt unrelated Megalania of Adolescent and below of any variant.
✦ Mobbing
Megalania may temporarily come together to hunt Apex species in the POI. This can range from 2 to 5 adults total, working together to bring down the prey.
They form an in game group to do so. This group dissolves as soon as a hunt is lost, or a body is consumed.
Once one begins, the others have 30 seconds to join the hunt.
If one Megalania forfeits, they are not permitted to share in the kill should the hunt end up successful. They must also leave the in game group.
Once the prey is killed, each individual that joined in the mob hunt tolerate one another at the kill.
Bild
✦ Courtship
Megalania of both variants seeking to court travel to Hot Springs. This is a universal courting ground for both variants, though Temperate and Arid variants always ignore one another in this region.
Females slip into a pool at one of the hot springs and begin to call :broadcast_call:  loudly, seeking to draw in interested males while swimming around their claimed pool.
Their scent is carried on the steam, and males flock to the area from great distances, tongue-flicking the air as they approach.
Different Variants never accept courtship advances from one another.
✦ Pool Challenges
Sometimes, multiple females may be in the POI and scuffles can occur regarding a claimed pond.
One female will approach another with an arched neck and slow, deliberate head bobs, staring directly at the other female with fixed eye contact.
The female goes very still, and issues 3 :threaten_call: aggressive calls, one after the other.
If the opponent does not yield - or worse, ignores entirely - the interaction escalates into a physical battle. This battle is fought in the water, and continues until one leaves the pool.
The first female to get the other to scurry onto land becomes the winner, and retains the rights to display in that pool.
✦ Male Interest
A male arriving at a female's pool begins a slow walk around the entirety of her claimed pool, flicking his tongue to take in her scent.
The female continues displaying during this, careful to keep watch of the patrolling male.
If multiple males show interest in the same female, they will fight one another for the right to court her.
This begins with slight raising onto their hind legs, coupled with vicious roars. [:question_emote:]
If neither male backs down, a battle is fought until one either forfeits, or reaches deathscars. If either male enters the pool during this fight, they automatically forfeit, pronouncing the other male the winner.
✦ Acceptance
After battles are won - or the male has spent enough time analyzing potential mates in the area - the interested male steps forward into the water.
If the female rejects this male, she hisses aggressively at him, before descending below the surface, making her rejection clear.
Males, though disappointed, respect this and leave the female alone.
If accepting, she watches him carefully, allowing his approach.
Once they reach each other, the pair begin swimming in a circle around the pool, tongue flicking and investigating one another.
✦ Nesting
After accepting courtship advances, the pair leave the pool together and slink away to find a suitable place to nest. They do not group in game to do this.
The male defends a radius of 5 body lengths around the female at this time, and aggressively challenges away any other Megalania that get too close to her.
Males assist the female in nest building, and contribute food and water resources to complete the nest.
Males and females may share kills together at this time, but do not cooperatively hunt, unless mobbing an Apex tier prey.
✦ Parenthood
As eggs begin to hatch, the male approaches to observe his young being born, taking note of his offspring. Once the final egg has hatched, the male turns and leaves the female, disappearing to continue his travels elsewhere. Males have no input on parenting, and may even cannibalize their offspring if they encounter them at a young age.
Females remain in the general vicinity, but do not show affection towards her young, and do not allow them to get too close.
They aggressively defend their young if attacked by others, and attempt to ward off rivals and predators.
Mothers begrudgingly allow their young to eat from their kills - but only after she has eaten her fill and is resting. Young that attempt to feed or scavenge before this time are aggressed away before being attacked - and sometimes even killed entirely if the mother is feeling particularly irritable.
Once the youngest offspring is midway through Juvenile, the mother abandons her nest and begins her nomadic adventures again. Offspring of Adolescent and below are permitted to follow and benefit from her kills, but must not get too close without facing her wrath.
Should any of her offspring get to deathscars, mothers may turn on them and cannibalize them. Albino offspring is immediately cannibalized if they do not retreat fast enough upon discovery.
At Sub-Adult, offspring disperse from each other and their mother.
✦ Parthenogenesis Nesting
Females that enter Hot Springs and call longingly for a mate and fail to attract one can sometimes go on to reproduce asexually, in a process called parthenogenesis.
Like their modern day counterparts, Megalania possess both male and female chromosomes, and their sex is determined by the ZW chromosomal system. When producing a viable egg without male input, the chromosomes double. ZW are females, ZZ are male, and WW are non-viable. 
As the female can only produce ZZ or WW eggs without a male, this means any offspring produced in this way are male.
This is an exhausting process for the female, and as such, she lays far fewer eggs - often only 1 or 2 in this process.
Bild
Megalania that reach old age show less willingness to chase after movement like they do in their younger years.
They grow considerably lazier, and more prone to basking for longer periods - often letting many potential prey opportunities slip them by in their desire for warmth.
This, unfortunately, is often coupled with a higher level of irritability. Elder Megalania have little patience for others of their species, and become very snappy and aggressive in defending their personal space.
Bild
Megalania may form a mob to hunt Apex prey. They group in game to do this.
Megalania females may reproduce asexually, without a male, if struggling to court for some time. All offspring produced via this method are male.
Megalania have different variants, depending on color. They have different POIs, and may hunt the opposite variant.
Albinos are never accepted as mates, and are cannibalized by either variant. Albino females can only reproduce via parthenogenesis.
Melanistics are considered to be an Arid variant, even if hatched into a temperate nest.
Arid variants never court or accept courtship advances from temperates, and vice versa.
Arid variants must be desperate hunger (35%) to hunt in temperate POIs.
Temperate variants must be desperate hunger (35%) to hunt in arid POIs.
Albino Megalania are considered whatever variant they were born as. If a fresh spawn, the player can decide if they wish to be temperate or arid.
Megalania of two different variants may not mob together (i.e. an arid and a temperate).
Megalania may not attempt to hunt other players in the courtship grounds and must primarily feed from critters or carrion.
 
Bild
Megalania may form an in-game group of 2-5 Sub/Adults in order to hunt Apex prey. Groupmates must be added before a hunt is started.
This group must dissolve as soon as a hunt is lost, or the body is fully consumed.
Groupmates that individually forfeit must leave the group, and cannot share the body.
All grouped members can act to defend the body during a body contest.
Megalania can hunt other Megalania adults of a different variant. 8.4
Megalania can cannibalize offspring of Adolescent of any variant or below, when following appropriate hunger requirements for POI. 8.4
Megalania females may reproduce asexually, without a male, if struggling to court for some time. All offspring produced via this method are male and there is a maximum of 2 eggs. 9.3
You cannot use nesting multipliers when having a parthenogenesis nest.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 22:11
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 03:14
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Megalania are Medium Cathemeral Terrestrial & Semi-Aquatic Carnivores.
Megalania are solitary. Offspring may group with their mother until Sub-Adult. Related Offspring that end up orphaned may group together until Sub-Adult.
Megalania do not adopt.
Megalania are tolerant to those of the same variant, and aggressive to opposite variants.
Megalania can have up to 1 in an engagement or hunt. 
However, they may form a temporary group called a mob to hunt  Apex tier prey. This consists of 2-5 members.
Megalania have two variants that vary somewhat in personality and distribution across Gondwa.
Arid variants are more solitary and defensive of their personal space, and can be found in deserts and rocky regions. They showcase warmer colors.
Temperate variants are more tolerant of others and sometimes engage in group basking. They can be found in wetter climates, and have a colder array of colors.
Neither variant tolerate the other, and will hunt or challenge each other. They never court.
Megalania enjoy water, and may use it freely during an engagement.
Megalania travel to Hot Springs in order to find a mate. Females claim a pool of water and broadcast to attract males.
After pairing, males defend a small radius of 5 body lengths around a female, and assists her in nest building. However, after eggs hatch, males depart, offering no parental input.
Females loosely guard their offspring, but may cannibalize them under certain circumstances. They permit them to eat from their kills - but only after she has already eaten her fill.
If a Megalania cannot find a male to nest with, they sometimes go onto reproduce through parthenogenesis. They produce a maximum of 2 eggs, and all offspring are always male.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 2600
Adjusted Stats:
⁨
- Bite damage increased to 40 from 35
- Movement speed increased
- Removed all subspecies buffs
   - To compensate: 
   -  Venom damage increased by 5%
   -  Armor increased by 5%
   -  Jump height increased by 10%
   -  Climbing movement speed increased by 10%
   -  Swim movement speed increased by 10%
 
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?