Lurdusaurus
Lurdusaurus originated from the Elrhaz Formation in Niger, found in the Cretaceous period around 112 million years ago. It was an iguanodont that may have been semi-aquatic, living in and around the rivers of ancient tropical forests. Measuring eight meters long (26 feet) and weighing more than five tons, Lurdusaurus were formidable herbivores with a diet consisting primarily of water-plants.

⁨
Author: Hawkeye, Kittyful, and additional contributions from Skittles32 & Kippa 
Photo: Kapture_Kat
Profile inspired by hippos and capybaras.
⁩

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 22.12.2024 02:03
Overview
Details
Medium Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Herbivore
Lurdusaurus form promiscuous bonds.
Lurdusaurus males are territorial and claim medium territories in the water.
Lurdusaurus have an aggressive nature to others of the same species.
Lurdusaurus may group with: Halszkaraptor.
Lurdusaurus may not defend these species, even when grouped with them.
Lurdusaurus tolerate melanistic individuals and shun albinos.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 10 Sub/Adults, comprising of a maximum of 5 males. 
A group may be entirely female if no males are available, but males cannot group in numbers higher than 5.
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees
Only females in a group without males will adopt. Males do not allow adoptees into the group.

This group is known as a float.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Predator Reaction: ⁨Aggressive⁩ / ⁨Headstrong⁩
5 individuals may enter an engagement.
Sub/Adult males are the primary defenders and leap to the defence of others before females.
A mother, however, always viciously defends her offspring under Sub-Adult.
Lurdusaurus may flee to the water at any point during an engagement or hunt to avoid being attacked. They are able to move in and out of the water as needed.
Lurdusaurus flee Deinosuchus and Spinosaurus when there are less than 5 Adult individuals to help defend.
Lurdusaurus retreat into the water (or flee towards water if not nearby) when hunted by 2+ Large or 1+ Apex terrestrial carnivores.

Preferred Diet
Lakeweed, reeds, kelp, berries, shellfish, fruits, salt.
Lurdusaurus are also able to eat flowers, nuts and roots but will only do so if desperate.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
Lurdusaurus nest close to water in their preferred POIs. Their nests are built out of reeds, mud and branches.

Physical Dimorphism
Males, known as bulls, and females - known as cows - have no physical dimorphism except that males have brighter flashes of color in contrast to the rest of their body, whilst females tend to be duller and more uniform.
Lurdusaurus dimorphism is not mandatory, however individuals not conforming to the dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
 
Growing Up
Offspring Behavior
Lurdusaurus hatchlings, known as calves, are born weary and tired. The first thing they hear is their mother's gentle snorts and rumbles, encouraging them towards her, where she lays only a short distance away.
Despite being tired, hatchlings eagerly attempt to stumble towards their mother, often tripping over their own legs - or in extreme cases, outright refusing to move until she nudges them up. They frequently snort at her for aid and attention during these first moments as they learn to wobble about on unsteady footing.
As soon as they begin to walk, their mother aims to introduce them to the water - swimming is as crucial to a Lurdusaurus' survival as walking, and calves are encouraged to take their first paddles quickly so they can start to develop vital motor skills.
Luckily for calves, swimming seems to come far more naturally to them than standing and running does, and their transition from nervous paddlers to adept swimmers is a fast one.
By juvenile, Lurdusaurus calves become much more energetic and playful. Now fully in control of their limbs, they rush into shallow water pools and splash and kick around - much to the annoyance of some of the adults in the float.
Strengthening their legs and tails is the most important step for a young Lurdusaurus, as slow swimmers may be left behind. The offspring however are completely oblivious to this fact, rather they believe it is a game. Chasing one another through the water, playing hide and seek behind kelp or rocks, and even trying to drag their mother into their games.
Calves learn and practice diving at juvenile, enjoying sinking to the bottom of a lake or water source and walking across the floor to conserve energy. Though it may seem like a simple play activity - this behavior helps build their lung strength.
When it rains young Lurdusaurus enjoy mud races with each other. They  compete for whoever can go the farthest and fastest. Calves broadcast in excitement, jumping out of the water and onto the shore, especially enjoying sliding about in mud.
As they mature into Adolescence, calves lose some of their outgoing cheeky behaviour and start to settle into a more serious personality. They spend less time playing, and more time copying adults in the float.
Males become louder and more dominant than their female siblings, engaging in mock fights when on the shore. They occasionally stand on their hind legs to display themselves, before running about shoving other young males about. The play that they still engage in becomes rougher and sometimes includes nipping at one another. If they do scrap, whoever reaches half health forfeits first - unless a mother tells them off first.
Females gain more independence as they grow, and prefer to keep their personal space clear of others. They may snort at unrelated females who get too close, but tolerate their female relatives. Unknown females may receive nips if they come too close to a maturing young female.
It’s at Adolescence where their fathers will finally show an interest in raising offspring. When the (highly protective) mothers aren’t looking, fathers will try to play and teach their children practical skills, such as how to dart between cover, navigate currents, and hide amongst the plants when under the water.
At Sub-Adult, a calves personality matches its adult self. Females bond to their female relatives, while avoiding socialising with strangers. Males strut about with self importance, carefully looking for bullfighting opportunities to show off their mature strength and impress others in the float.
Males start to flood with testosterone as they go through their final growth spurt. They experience bursts of aggression, challenging one another and engaging in short bullfights. Very rarely, a young male may attempt to challenge a female by mistake. If this happens, the float will shun him and push him away. Other young males may choose to follow him and form their own dispersal group.
This dispersal group of young bulls holds a charged atmosphere, with bullfights breaking out frequently while they find their footing and test their strength. As bulls hit Adult stage, they feel more secure in their position and only bullfight when they feel there is a need to impress a female or dominate another male.
At Sub-Adult, females try to remain in the group if there is enough room. If the float becomes over-full the group may choose to split apart into family groups and start new floats - giving opportunity for males to claim a dominant position in a new float.
Sub-Adult males will stay if there is space for them, but will equally wish to form their own floats and claim dominant positions. If there are multiple young males in a float maturing at the same time, they almost always break away and form a bachelor dispersal group to practice their strength and dominance displays ready for Adulthood.
Orphaned Behavior
Orphaned Lurdusaurus are left to fend for themselves without their mothers guidance or teaching. They are slow to awaken after hatching, and even slower to find their way to water, often stumbling about and crying out in hopes for their mother to hear them. Once they realise they’re alone, they will wobble about mostly in silence, occasionally snorting or honking in hopes of another Lurdusaurus finding them.
Once they realise they are truly alone, instinct will lead them towards the nearest water source. They will learn quickly how sensitive their scales are to the sun, and will be seen hiding beneath the shade and trying to roll in mud on their way to water.
Orphaned calves lack a lot of the confidence that their float-raised counterparts hold. As soon as they find water they spend most of their time hiding amongst branches, rocks, and aquatic plants.
As they grow in Juveniles, their curiosity kicks in and they venture out into the water and can be seen playing with fish and riverbed rocks. Much of their time is still spent hiding, moving onto land occasionally but keeping to vegetation to avoid predators.
Even in Adolescence, an orphaned calf will keep out of sight as much as possible. If they come across other young creatures, they will follow them around from a distance at first while they work out whether they are a threat or not. 
Orphan calves that find themselves with other herbivores will avoid drawing too much attention to themselves. Occasionally playing with other youngsters but remaining shy and cautious in behavior, always choosing to observe from a distance first.
Mid way through adolescence, Lurdusaurus develop instincts to seek out others of their own species, searching river banks, coasts and the surrounding areas for floats to join.
Female orphans usually have a difficult time differentiating social cues from other females, sometimes leading to them accidentally invading the personal space of others, and crying in confusion when they are aggressed away. This can even result in them becoming overaggressive later on in life, valuing their own personal space and nipping without warning at any females who come too close.
Male orphans on the other hand have an easier time, while they lack the combat prowess of the other float-raised bulls, they tend to be more agile and excel at swimming.
Sub-adult Lurdusaurus that started life as an orphan will hopefully have found themselves a float to join at this point, as they are typically accepted as adults into existing groups. Males remain less skilled at fighting, and females remain less socially aware.
Adult orphaned Lurdusaurus that have not joined a float will seek to follow herds of Iguanodon,Tenontosaurus and Lambeosaurus as they feel the need to have company.
Lurdusaurus raised in an orphaned setting will sometimes appear friendlier to other species than the average Lurdusaurus, often investigating other species up close unless aggravated and pushed away, as they never learned personal space, even for other species.
General Behavior
Lurdusaurus are cathemeral herbivores; they are more terrestrial at night, and mostly aquatic in the day. As the sun begins to set, they become far more lively, and willingly emerge from the water to travel a bit further inland.
During the day, Lurdusaurus almost exclusively prefer to remain in water, only leaving to go on land when needing to forage, escape a semi-aquatic or aquatic predator, or to roll in mud and bask.
Lurdusaurus have incredibly sensitive scales, able to feel even the slightest ripple in the water. This makes them incredibly prone to overheating or even burning from the sun, which can make them especially irritable in the Dry Season.
Male Lurdusaurus work together with other males to claim territories in water, while females remain nomadic until they find a male's float to be part of.
They prefer to reside along lakes and riverbanks - with some even in coastal regions - and can often be seen leaving the cool protection of the water to roll around in mud, coating their scales for additional protection from the sun's rays.
Lurdusaurus can be found in most regions that harbour water - both freshwater and saltwater. They have a unique ability to process salt water and utilise this to their advantage when in coastal regions - especially during the Dry Season. They expel salt through their nostrils in loud snorts. 
With their specialised ability to purge salt from their digestive system, they enjoy consuming mineral rocks with high salt content, and can be seen gathered around clusters of these rocks from time to time, replenishing their body’s reserves.
Male Lurdusaurus patrol the float's territory both day and night, eager to drive out any rival male Lurdusaurus, and other semi-aquatic species. Crocodilian species such as Sarcosuchus and Kaprosuchus are especially driven out - with apexes such as Deinosuchus, Spinosaurus and Deinocheirus regrettably tolerated (and avoided) until they have at least 5 Adults; enough for the float to feel confident chasing them out.
Terrestrial and aerial species are largely ignored, but might be aggressed from the water’s edge during the Dry Season if they dare to approach while a float is present.
Within the water they use their serrated beaks to graze on aquatic vegetation like lakeweed, kelp and reeds, occasionally pulling plants from the shore to eat while floating. From land, their preference falls on nuts, roots, and flowers - finding the sweeter berries too rich for their normal diet and only consuming them as a rare treat.
Lurdusaurus adore watching terrestrial species from a distance. Dominant bulls remain defensive of their territory and less curious, while the rest of the float are nosy and sometimes swim towards visiting herbivore herds or carnivore packs that they don’t feel threatened by.
Social Interaction
Lurdusaurus have a dominant male who acts as the leading individual for the float. He has won this position through winning bullfights and earning the most favour from the females. His position often makes him the most favourable to the females, and it is as such highly sought after between the males. Other males only challenge him when trying to take over leadership.
The dominant bull often spends a great amount of his energy patrolling the territory and showing off to cows. He showcases his strength by leaping above them or above rocks, brings them gifts, and even tries to flick mud onto them to encourage bonding games.
Other males are regarded as the subordinates. They behave more submissively than the dominant male, until one of them gains enough confidence to try and claim his position. These males are by no means meek -  they engage in brawls, races and games to improve themselves, always working to become stronger while the dominant male is distracted tending to the float in general.
Females greatly enjoy watching the males spar, and will often settle down together to witness it. Finding the males amusing and great entertainment during the downtime.
All males work together to protect the territory, cows, and calves within the float, under the dominant bull’s leadership.
Cows are incredibly individualistic, they prioritise the needs of themselves and their own offspring above anything else. Cows that are in a float with their related female family members tend to reject unrelated females from their personal space. 
When near resources, older females often show aggressive behavior to unrelated females that get too close or attempt to eat at the same time as their family unit. They will nip at the unrelated female, and rake their large thumb claws across the other’s sides. If the other female retaliates, the spats will continue until one reaches half health or backs down.
As such, they prefer to band together with females they know. Sisters, mothers, daughters, or even unrelated females they were raised around. This makes conflict less likely, and play behaviors more common.
Females in a float will also show close bonds with each other so long as they were raised together or are related, often using each other as scratching posts due to their itchy skin, wallowing in the mud together, and even playfully fighting to keep their own skills sharp.
Should the float ever need to move from their territory, they travel together warily. The dominant male will lead, while the subordinates will patrol around the outskirts of the float, the females and their offspring bound together in the middle.
Oftentimes he will migrate them through waterways, only ever travelling on land through the shade or during the cover of night, and only if truly necessary such as a result of threats - or being expelled by an enemy float.
During times of relaxation, Lurdusaurus enjoy flicking mud and water onto one another, often running or swimming away moments later, inciting a small game where they chase each other around.
Males become obnoxious and far more playful during the night, when many Lurdusaurus heighten their activity. They practice their bullfight or acrobatics, usually taking it onto land. It's common to see a pair of males stretching their arms wide and posturing at one another, letting out loud bellows.
Albino individuals are shunned from a float and condemned to a more lonely existence. Individuals will turn their back to them at first, push them away from resources, and if ignored, will face them directly and call aggressively. If these warnings are still ignored, the float will take further action by attacking them and driving them away.
Aggressive Interaction
Lurdusaurus floats are highly territorial towards rival Lurdusaurus that dare to enter their territory.
Floats that only contain females are non-territorial, they remain nomadic until a male joins their float and claims the dominant position, and claims a territory for them to live in. 
Female-only floats that have no room for other individuals will split themselves apart when presented with a male that wishes to join them. Females that wish to breed will spar with one another to claim a position in the new float that contains the male, and the remaining females will break away and remain in their nomadic group. 
Spats are only ever fought to half health, or until one forfeits the fight.
Female-only floats that have no room for other individuals will chase away any new females that attempt to join them or share the food in the immediate area; they know their group is restricted by the resources they consume, and cannot support an infinite number of members.
Floats that have room for more individuals (either male or female) will behave neutrally to strange Lurdusaurus, scoping them out to see if they wish to join the float. If the Lurdusaurus shows no sign of joining, they will act aggressively to encourage them to move on and leave the territory.
When defending a territory from rival Lurdusaurus, the dominant male and his subordinate males form the primary defenders - up to the engagement limit of 5 individuals. If there are not enough males to meet this number, sub/adult females can step in to fulfil this role.
These fights are fought in the water only - using their thumb spikes to stab and slash, and delivering powerful snapping bites to their enemies.
To forfeit, individuals rush onto land while 2 calling, signifying their retreat and loss of the battle.
Should the owners of the territory be the ones to lose, the males of the float must leave the POI entirely - often forced to leave females and calves behind for the new males.
However, if the new float already has females and not enough space for the remaining females, they too will be chased out, forced to follow along with the losing males.
The winning Lurdusaurus bulls may attempt to cull unattended offspring to reset the females mating timer if he has challenged into the float while offspring were already present.
Within a float, females are only particularly aggressive to unrelated females, their spats are uncoordinated and messy. They will bellow and wack, kick and nip, backing down only once they have reached half health or deemed the resource not worth the battles. Females littered with scars are often respected and seen as more intimidating than those lacking in them. These battles can be over anything, from personal space to food or even the best wallowing spots. However, they will never fight over nesting spots.
Males within a float fight between one another from adolescence - a behavior that begins early on as play and adult imitation, but continues throughout their lives as a means of social bonding and refining their skills.
Cross-Species Interaction
Lurdusaurus are incredibly territorial towards other semi-aquatics in their claimed territory.
Medium and Large semi-aquatics are aggressed at all times if they enter into the float's territory in the water, and will be continually aggressed until they leave the claimed territory.
Deinosuchus and Spinosaurus however, pose a higher risk to the float. Unless there are at least 5 sub/adults present and ready to defend, the float will not risk attacking or driving them out; they will be ignored, and avoided where possible.
Deinocheirus are also a high risk species, so Lurdusaurus will only attack and drive them out when there are at least 5 sub/adults present.
In the Rainy Season, non-aquatic species are largely ignored unless they pose a threat to any calves that are present in the float. Defensive attacks will be led by the dominant male and always aim to remove the threat by chasing them out, rather than fighting to the death.
In the Dry Season, all Lurdusaurus - even those not in a claimed territory - become aggressive to other species that approach the water's edge - including even Apexes. They utilise the water to flee from these engagements if the situation appears to turn unfavorably for them - but have no qualms with starting them.
When retreating back into the water, however, they cannot aggress the same species again until 15 minutes have passed, following normal engagement rules.
Lurdusaurus are relatively passive towards Rhamphorhynchus. The tiny aerial carnivores pose no risk to the herbivore, and are rather perfect for clearing off stuck shed or water ticks clinging to their scales.
Iguanodon are greatly admired by Lurdusaurus, and are one of the few species that Lurdusaurus will not aggress away from their territory. They approach these herbivores when they spot them and grunt at them affectionately, keen to socialize with these similar-looking species.
Females that have failed repeated clutches or simply desire to adopt offspring may sometimes attempt to adopt Iguanodon calves. This behavior can be very frightening for an Iguanodon calf - particularly when the female attempts to encourage it into the water, seemingly oblivious to its panicked cries.
Males strictly intervene if noticing females in the float exhibiting this behavior, and aggress the Iguanodon calf away and back onto land - ideally back towards its own kind.
Iguanodon calves that accept their adoptive parent and follow them into the water often die by accidental drowning, attempting to become aquatic like their family.
Camptosaurus and Tenontosaurus are terrestrial hadrosaurs that look uncannily similar to Lurdusaurus, and males especially easily mistake them for odd looking Lurdusaurus with stunted growth. Both sexes sometimes mistake them for small versions of Lurdusaurus, and during courting if a Camptosaurus is nearby, they may accidentally choose to court them. 
Young of these species are sometimes mistakenly adopted into Lurdusaurus floats and will be guided into the water by the adoptive female, and may accidentally drown if they swim too far from the shore. Lurdusaurus bulls will put a stop to this behavior if they notice it, driving away adoptive offspring of a different species with aggressive calls and pushing them back onto land towards their true species.
 
Friendship with Yunnanosaurus
Despite Lurdusaurus being so territorial and aggressive to most other species, Lurdusaurus adore Yunnanosaurus.
Lurdusaurus share a kinship with Yunnanosaurus; both species have similar smooth skin and long bodies, and are intolerant of most carnivores. When a Yunnnanosaurus crosses the water, Lurdusaurus greet their terrestrial cousins with calls of joy and sometimes leap out of the water to perform for them.
Both species find one another entertaining, Lurdusaurus greatly enjoy the sight of their long necked friends with their odd appearance, and Yunnanosaurus find great amusement in the parading of Lurdusaurus in the water, sometimes pausing by the shore in hopes that a Lurdusaurus will leap for them.
Lurdusaurus often encourage Yunnanosaurus to join them in the water, even going so far to knock them in by launching forwards through the mud once from shore. Pushing them into deeper bodies of water is great fun for Lurdusaurus, but any alarm calls from Yunnanosaurus are respected.
Lurdusaurus will sometimes even remember their Yunnanosaurus friends and seek them out when the Yunnanosaurus return in the Dry Season to exchange friendly calls and spend a few moments together. As Yunnanosaurus travel often during the Dry Season, Lurdusaurus may attempt to follow them through rivers, or may simply bid them farewell until they meet again.

Friendship with Halszkaraptor
Lurdusaurus happily welcome Halszkaraptor as part of their group, showing uncharacteristically tolerant behavior towards them.
Halszkaraptor make excellent sentries for Lurdusaurus, and the small dromaeosaurid frequently collects and shares a number of food resources, helping to smooth over relations with Lurdusaurus.

Predator Reaction
Lurdusaurus always flee from Deinosuchus or Spinosaurus hunting them unless there are at least 5 sub/adults in their group, in which case they will attempt to defend themselves.
When hunted by other semi-aquatics, bulls always come to the defence of the rest of the float, but cows will step in if there are no males present, or not enough to be able to defend effectively. They will try to intimidate the hunters away by standing their ground and bellowing. Slapping the surface of the water, letting out loud warning calls.
When hunted by terrestrial species, Lurdusaurus will retreat to the water’s edge where bulls take the lead in defence. These herbivores feel empowered and confident at the shoreline; they stand in the shallows or on the edge of the shore, bellowing and trying to intimidate their hunter. 
Lurdusaurus attempt to kick, bite, shove and even claw the target until they forfeit or the Lurdusaurus is too weak and chooses to flee into the water.
Lurdusaurus will never try to chase down or kill a fleeing hunter unless they are near the edge of the water, at which point they will attempt to finish them off, never running more than 10 body lengths to kill a fleeing hunter.
Members of the float that are not involved in a hunting defence engagement will move away swiftly, but stay close to one another; avoiding making themselves an easy target for the predator to switch to.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 22.12.2024 02:17
Courtship & Parenthood
Lurdusaurus courtship begins with the dominant bull bellowing loudly from the shore, and gaining the attention of nearby cows. When he has their attention, he re-enters the water to perform an incredible acrobatic display. Leaping as high as possible from the water and over the heads of cows in the water as he bellows and displays himself, showing off his physical prowess and attractive colors.
This will incite the action of the other males, who quickly seek to join in with the displays, all seeking to prove themselves to nearby cows. They splash their large bodies on the surface of the water, bellowing, leaping and twisting through the air.
Dominant bulls are accepted by the float as the strongest and most attractive of all the bulls present, and they always have first choice in females. Other bulls will always back down if the dominant bull is interested in the same female - unless they wish to challenge for the position of dominant bull.
Bulls become more aggressive than usual during this time, and any bull that gets too close to another will initiate aggressive calls. If neither bull backs down, they begin a vicious bullfight which ends when either bull reaches half health, or one bull chooses to forfeit.
Cows will watch this display with great interest. They keep out of the water and rest on the shoreline, keeping out of any bullfights, and gauging the skills of the bulls on display.
Cows that are interested in a particular bull will approach him in the water, calling lovingly and nuzzling against him to show her approval. Multiple females can choose one male, and neither will get jealous over this - their bonds are loose and never cemented.
Once all the interested females have courted, the float will be led by the older cows to a suitable nearby area that can host their nests. The bulls stay near the back of the float, resting and recovering their strength and allowing cows to demonstrate their wisdom in choosing the right nesting ground.
Nests are built communally, females show reduced aggression when they are nest building and do not start fights with one another - all working with the single purpose of building a safe environment to welcome the new offspring into.
Cows and bulls will work together to dig up mud, branches, and reeds tirelessly to form the perfect nest for their clutches. Females may even share resources at this time, bonded individuals will place their nests close together so that the offspring can mix scents and familiarise themselves with close relatives.
In contrast, when the nests are all built, females become highly territorial towards males and will chase them away from the nest area. They remain tolerant of other females, but males have no part in rearing young calves, and therefore must remain a suitable distance from the nesting site once the construction is finished. 
Cows lay close to their nests and curl around their eggs, keeping close watch and refusing to leave unless desperate for food or water, until their eggs have hatched.
Males detach from the females, and keep well clear while the females enter their territorial state. They fall back into their normal routine of patrolling the territory, and de-stressing after courtship by rolling about in mud and swimming in the nearby water. 
Bulls will keep a fierce guard over their float while cows are nesting, particularly when calves are present. They watch the surrounding area closely for any potential threats and are quicker than normal to react aggressively if threatened.
Bulls who have recently integrated into a float, as part of a territory dispute that they have won, will be aggressive to any existing calves. Since the calves were born to the bulls that have just been chased out, they will be swiftly killed to ensure that the cows can take part in courting the new bulls.
Cows are doting on their new calves, and spend much of their time grooming and checking over their young offspring, often calling lovingly. Soon after hatching, they are gently nudged to their feet so they can be introduced to the water. 
She will let them rest and regain their energy upon her back, before encouraging them lovingly to learn to swim. She will proudly encourage them to play, and may even play with them. Teaching them everything she knows about survival, how to forage for water-plants, and how to dive and leap.
Mothers are incredibly possessive and defensive of her young when they are below Adolescent. She will not allow anything near her offspring, not even other Lurdusaurus, and will break away from them entirely until her young are old enough to not be at immediate risk. Until then, she will spoil them. Often playing, basking, resting and showing great affection to her children.
Once the offspring reach Adolescent, she will tentatively introduce them to the float. Letting them begin to play and interact with other children, never losing sight of her offspring. Should she be unable to locate them, she will begin to bellow loudly in fear, causing a mass panic as she searches for her missing children.
Females who have just lost a clutch can be prone to this behaviour, crying out and hoping for them to return to her as she grieves. During this time she will be less prone to aggressive other individuals, and will allow them to approach and comfort her.
Young Lurdusaurus often try to tempt their mothers into playing games with them, but mothers take a more serious role and rarely engage in play. Instead encouraging the calves to play amongst themselves. 
Play-fights that occur between calves are quickly halted by nearby mothers as soon as they are noticed, they are far too protective of their respective calves to allow much damage to either one.
Fathers will show no interest in raising their offspring, but will try to sneak in games with their children at Adolescence when their mothers aren’t watching. However - should they be caught, the female will rush towards him with angry bellows. Giving him a firm nip or wack on the face or side to remind him to stay away.
As the offspring age, females will ease on their protective behaviours and return to normal. It isn’t uncommon for the dominant male to begin to lead the herd away from the nesting territory in search of someplace more rich in resources once the offspring are old enough to move.
Young bulls that prove too rowdy with their bullfighting are sometimes kicked out of the float, and encouraged to form their own dispersal group. This happens when youngsters reach Sub-Adult, when the float may have to push out members due to their grouping limit and resource availability.
Elderly & End of Life (Optional)
Elder Lurdusaurus become far calmer and quieter than their younger counterparts. Their colors often look darker and duller due to an extended period of sun exposure. 
They will rarely respond to aggression with aggression of their own, and prefer to live the last years of their life in peace surrounded by a float they trust.
Elderly members who have spent most of their life together have been known to lay down together for their final rest, moving away from the float and cuddling close in a rare display of affection. Closing their eyes and drifting off.
Lurdusaurus will rarely mourn the dead, and prefer to move on quickly. However those with close bonds may be seen exhibiting symptoms of sadness after the death of a loved one. They can be seen refusing to eat and lashing out at any who get too close, often pacing back and forth as they mourn their loss.
Optional Disease: Lurdusaurus can be afflicted with an unfortunate affliction known as sun bleaching. Members who spend many days away from water and hydration, can become incredibly sick. Unable to eat or drink, losing their energy and feeling lethargic. Should they be unable to find water in time, they may even die from the heat stroke, with their scales having drained of almost all pigment by that point in time, appearing as pale as an albino. Members who survive the later stages of the heat stroke will rarely be able to return the pigment to their scales.
Notes
Lurdusaurus from coastal regions are known to have more blue, gray and white in their colors. While Lurdusaurus from more inland regions are known to be more green, brown, and cream. This is an optional behavior.
Only all-female floats will adopt unrelated Lurdusaurus.
Lurdusaurus males may commit infanticide as per profile, this will reset a females nesting timer.

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 3200
Adjusted Stats:
- Oxygen depletion rate reduced
- Salt sneeze cooldown reduced to 60 seconds
 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 22:35
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild

Bild
Profile - Quick View
Lurdusaurus are Medium Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Territorial Herbivores.
Lurdusaurus can group up to 10 sub/adults, unlimited offspring, and unlimited adoptee. Only female-only floats adopt.
Lurdusaurus are aggressive in nature towards others of the same species.
Lurdusaurus can have up to 5 in an engagement, bulls form the primary defence.
Lurdusaurus will defend from hunts, except if they are hunted by Semi-Aquatic Apex predators, where they must have at least 5 sub/adults before they feel confident enough to defend themselves without fleeing.
Lurdusaurus are very protective and possessive mothers, despite making their nests communally they will not allow any others near their offspring once they hatch. Bulls have no part in raising offspring.
Lurdusaurus are aggressive and territorial, they will primarily aggress other semi-aquatics. They will aggress terrestrials only when it is dry season.
During downtime and relaxation Lurdusaurus greatly enjoy playing games with one another, including chase, mud races, mock bullfights, and more.
In courtship, Lurdusaurus males may accept multiple females. Females will only mate with one male per season.
Tenontosaurus and Camptosaurus are sometimes mistaken as strange looking Lurdusaurus, and adults may be mistakenly courted.
Lurdusaurus occasionally attempt to steal or mistakenly adopt Iguanodon, Camptosaurus and Tenontosaurus offspring but the males do not tolerate this behaviour and drive them out if noticed.
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 31.01.2026 16:34
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?