Eurhinosaurus was a sleek, fast-swimming marine reptile that lived during the Early Jurassic period, around 180 million years ago, in what is now Europe. This remarkable ichthyosaur was known for its extremely elongated upper jaw, which extended far beyond its lower jaw like a swordfish’s bill. Reaching lengths of up to 6–7 meters, Eurhinosaurus was a powerful predator, using its long snout and numerous sharp teeth to catch small fish and squid. Its name, meaning "well-nosed lizard," highlights its distinctive jaw structure, and its streamlined body and large flippers made it an efficient, agile swimmer in the ancient seas.

⁨
Author: Bunzey, Entered & Skylark
Photo: Suprizesoup
Profile inspired by salmons, trout & dolphins.
⁩

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2025-Beyond



image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 14.06.2025 23:56
Overview
Details
Medium Cathemeral Aquatic Carnivore
Eurhinosaurus form promiscuous bonds.
Eurhinosaurus are sedentary.
Eurhinosaurus have an aggressive nature when resources are low, but are otherwise tolerant to other species.
Eurhinosaurus may not scavenge from claimed corpses and must contest for a body. Critters and abandoned corpses may be freely eaten.
Eurhinosaurus tolerate albino and melanistic individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Eurhinosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls  to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Unlimited Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a shoal.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 3 Sub/Adult Eurhinosaurus may defend if attacked, or enter an engagement.
Eurhinosaurus flee from Apex carnivores.
Adolescent Eurhinosaurus do not assist with their parents’ hunts.
Solo Adolescent Eurhinosaurus do not hunt other species.

Preferred Prey/Diet
Eurhinosaurus prefer to live passively off fish and various crustaceans.
However, they will jump at the opportunity to hunt unattended Leedsichthys offspring and  Kaiwhekea before anything else if given the option.
Eurhinosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️ Rainy Season: 4 🥚 per 3 hours.
☀️ Dry Season: 2 🥚 per 3 hours.
Eurhinosaurus nest in at the saltwater river south of Grand Plains river. Their nests are built out of kelp, branches and rocks.

Physical Dimorphism
♀️ Females have shorter noses and a heavier build than males.
Suitable subspecies include: communis.
♂️ Males have longer noses and slimmer builds than females.
Suitable subspecies include: longirostris and pelagicus.
Subspecies dimorphism for Eurhinosaurus is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.

Color Dimorphism
Outside of the breeding season, they shed their skin regularly depending on their environment, changing their color, but not patterns, to better fit into their surroundings and hide from predators.
Both males and females shed into bright colors during nesting season, sometimes also changing their skin patterns.
Females prioritise blue skins, while males prioritise green skins.
Color dimorphism for Eurhinosaurus is mandatory, the changing of environmental camouflage is optional, however courting color changes are mandatory.
 
Growing Up
Offspring Behavior
Eurhinosaurus young, known as fry hatch from their egg completely mobile and talkative. Often locking sights with their mother, they stay particularly close to their mother's tail, feeding from shells and small fish within their nesting areas.
When approaching juvenile young fry adjust to the chaos of other young Eurhinosaurus within the nesting areas. Juveniles from all nests often take up games of tag together with slight nips and pushing into each others sides. These games of tag promote key survival instincts and the friendship bonds they need for their survival in the future. 
Mothers will monitor these games of tag to make sure they never cause too much injury.
When the oldest fry in a mother's clutch becomes the age of adolescent, the mother will abandon her offspring and leave the nesting grounds to return back into the oceans. 
She will seek out her previous shoal members and groups of adult females will leave together. Closely bonded females will sometimes wait at the river’s mouth for her companion to leave her nest.
Mothers do not wait for their youngest offspring to mature, they leave all the offspring in their nesting ground, which turns into a creche of youngsters looking out for one another while they continue to grow.
At adolescent, siblings or other similarly aged young start to form their own groups, known as shoals and form close friendship bonds with those of the same sex.
They swim out with their newly formed shoal, or sometimes choose to branch out on their own. These youngsters will only ever return to the river nesting ground when wishing to nest themselves.
Orphaned Behavior
Orphaned Eurhinosaurus are born into the waters alone and defenceless. With natural survival instincts these orphans tend to hide within overgrown kelp and coral rocks. They remain hidden feeding off of small fish and crustaceans.
As they mature into sub-adult these orphans explore more bravely, venturing out into open waters in hopes they may find a shoal to join.
General Behavior
Eurhinosaurus are usually loud and rambunctious by nature, and are normally heard long before they are seen.
Shoals often follow a familiar route around their current POI, travelling between popular fish locations and checking rocks and underwater caves to seek out crustaceans.
While both sexes enjoy vocalising, males call more loudly and more often, projecting their voices through the water and singing out to their group mates.
Despite being confined to the waters, Eurhinosaurus are playful and curious. They take great pleasure in calling to terrestrial species and poking their heads above the water to peer into nearby forests.
Social Interaction
Shoals form strong, lasting bonds with their members, often spending the majority of their lives together. These connections are vital due to their cooperative hunting strategies and mutual reliance for comfort, protection, and survival.
With no maximum capacity for shoals, smaller groups may form within a shoal, containing a few closely bonded members usually of the same gender.
When two separate shoals encounter each other, they may briefly interact in a friendly manner before moving on. 
Groups are rarely in conflict, but if two shoals occupy the same area and deplete resources, it can lead to increased tension and potentially aggressive behavior. For this reason, shoals rarely spend more than a few minutes within the same POI as one another.
If a shoal is occupying a POI with a reduced number of resources, another shoal may be challenged if they enter the same area. Fights are rare, and challenges involve group members lining up in a defensive position to show the newcomers that they are not welcome to stay.
Eurhinosaurus never show aggression to other adults within their nesting grounds.
Aggressive Interaction
Eurhinosaurus are generally not aggressive toward members of their own species. When encountering smaller shoals, they often choose to group together, favoring safety in numbers.
However, when approached by a large shoal, while in an area with limited resources, the existing shoal may show defensive behavior and line up to show a challenge calling out and not moving from their defensive line. This display is to show the other shoal that there is no room for them to join the POI, and they must find another. If the other shoal do not leave, the members may attack one another.
Typically, shoals strive to maintain harmony among their own kind. Aggressive encounters are rare and usually occur only when resources are scarce. In most cases, they prefer to relocate to another point of interest where resources are more abundant.
Cross-Species Interaction
Eurhinosaurus display a strong fascination and affection for Deinocherus, admiring these docile semi-aquatics for their ability to spurt water, creating playful environments that the Eurhinosaurus eagerly enjoy. 
They will often attempt to trade fish or decorative shells with Deinocherus in exchange for water spouts, turning the encounter into a joyful game.
One of the species Eurhinosaurus finds the most entertaining to interact with is Kaiwhekea. They view these slow-moving aquatic creatures as easy and amusing prey, and will otp to hunt this species above all other prey choices. 
Often turning the hunt into a cruel sport, they dart in and out, nipping off chunks of flesh, and disorienting the Kaiwhekea with high-pitched cries. They use their speed to overwhelm it, and continue chasing and nipping the Kaiwhekea until it succumbs to its injuries or manages to escape.
Eurhinosaurus consider most other species in a neural manner, except for Spinosaurus and Deinosuchus which they will flee from. They sometimes come across as arrogant, enjoying their speed and perceived dominance over the ocean territories. 
Terrestrial species that they encounter are sometimes teased, they especially enjoy engaging in screaming matches with Pycnonemosaurus, who rarely back down from the noisy challenge.
Hunting Strategy
Eurhinosaurus may hunt up to Large tier
Eurhinosaurus hunt unattended Leedsichthys offspring and Kaiwhekea first before anything else.
Eurhinosaurus flee from Apex carnivores.
Hunting is seen as a sport. Shoals train constantly to refine their coordination and tactics. Typically, some members distract with noise and movement, while others dart in for precision bites, creating a chaotic and overwhelming experience to exhaust and confuse their prey.
Some Shoals prefer a stealthy, silent approach, halting all their usual calling as soon as prey is spotted, and diving deeper to strike their targets from below, utilising vulnerable areas such as the belly of their prey.
Occasionally, shoals will shift between both styles alternating chaos and calm to keep prey off-balance.
 
Courtship & Parenthood
Once ready to court, shoals from all over the world travel to the nesting river of between the POIs of Dark Woods and Young Grove, or Cedrus Forest as shown in the map below.
Shoals mix together and group into one larger breeding group, this group is called a school.
Eurhinosaurus are passive to all members of their species within these POIs and will travel further away to seek food if resources are scarce, before returning to their chosen nesting area.
Both males and females shed into bright courting skins which signifies their desire to court and nest.
Females prioritise blue skins, while males prioritise green skins.
Males of this species begin the courtship process by beaching themselves on the river edge, vocalising and flapping their fins on the sand or mud. They move up and down the small section of beach and show off their strength and ability to stay out of water for a short period of time.
Females who are interested will watch from the water's edge, approaching, splashing, and calling out softly with approval.
When the courtship display ends, the male returns to the water and approaches a female nearby that has been calling to him. They circle together and brush their bodies against one another to form a close bond.
The female leads him to a section of the riverbed, and builds her nest to lay eggs and allow the male to fertilise them.
Females stay near their nest to protect their eggs once laid, but males are promiscuous and will return to the beach to display themselves once more, hoping to attract another female.
Once males have finished courting and fertilising eggs, they leave the nesting grounds. A small group of bonded males will usually leave together. Males take no responsibility in child rearing, and return to the ocean long before any offspring hatch.
Mothers stay within the nesting grounds with their young until their oldest offspring becomes adolescent. Then, the mothers leave the rivers and swim back to the open ocean with other adult females.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 15.06.2025 00:01
Elderly & End of Life (Optional)
As Eurhinosaurus age, they spend less time in the open ocean and stay close to rivers and coast lines.
They lose the ability to shed their skin to camouflage themselves, and show more white or pale colors in their skin as their patterns and original colors fade.
The pale colors often make elderly Eurhinosaurus stick out and become a target for predators.
When the shoal migrates to breeding territory, elderly males will beach themselves to display, but sometimes struggle to return to the water quickly and become a bigger target for predators.
Companions of elderly individuals will sometimes stick close by their side, guiding them to feeding areas and encouraging them to keep up with the shoal.
Eventually, elderly Eurhinosaurus lose their swimming strength and float gently to the bottom of the sea or river bed, in their final resting place.
Closely bonded individuals will mourn the loss of their friends for a short period of time, before moving on with their shoal and forming new bonds.
Notes
RULE EXEMPTIONS
Eurhinosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 15-25-35-45 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 3000
Adjusted Stats: none
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 23:05
Preferred POIs
Bild
Eurhinosaurus is not found on Gondwa.
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 03:06
Bild
Bild
✦ Riparia Differences
Eurhinosaurus nest in the Cedrus Forest rivers, ideally as far upstream as possible.
Profile - Quick View
Medium Cathemeral Aquatic Carnivore
Eurhinosaurus group in unlimited numbers, offspring, and adoptees in a group known as a shoal. They are sedentary and move through open ocean and some rivers.
Eurhinosaurus migrate to breeding grounds to court and raise offspring. They form promiscuous bonds when breeding, and close friendships with same sex individuals.
Eurhinosaurus have an aggressive nature when resources are low, but are otherwise tolerant to other species. They flee from Apex carnivores.
Hunting is playful and loud, prioritising unattended Leedsichthys offspring and Kaiwhekea over other species. Up to 3 sub/adult Eurhinosaurus may enter an engagement or hunt.
Eurhinosaurus tolerate albino and melanistic individuals.
Eurhinosaurus are friendly towards Deinocherus and offer them trinkets in exchange for play behavior. They also enjoy shouting matches with Pycnonemosaurus.
 
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?
(profile to be extended soon)