Quetzalcoatlus
    "Quetz", "Quetzal"
Quetzalcoatlus is a large, intimidating pterosaur that is found across the entirety of Gondwa. They are often seen following migrating herds and predators, feeding from corpses at common dying grounds, and bullying other carnivores off of their corpses. Forming small, loosely bonded groups, Quetzalcoatlus are widely known as lazy scavengers, and typically poor parents.

⁨
Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Red
Photo: XoBright
Profile inspired by vultures and creative liberty.
⁩

Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond



image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 27.09.2025 18:13
Overview
Bild
Large Cathemeral Aerial Carnivore
Quetzalcoatlus form temporary bonds.
Quetzalcoatlus are nomadic.
Quetzalcoatlus have a tolerant nature.
Quetzalcoatlus may scavenge if solo at their own risk, but must contest for a body if in a group of 2 individuals or more.
Albino and melanistic may be tolerated, but are sometimes shunned.
Quetzalcoatlus may, in desperate situations, cannibalize their own offspring. If an easy meal, they will cannibalize orphaned Quetzalcoatlus of adolescent and below as well.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Quetzalcoatlus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
3 Sub-Adults / Adults of any relation or sex
3 Offspring.
Quetzalcoatlus do not adopt, unless in a female same sex pair.
Due to being at risk of being cannibalized, orphaned Quetzalcoatlus will typically avoid other Quetzalcoatlus.

A Quetzalcoatlus group is known as a committee.
Multiple groups of Quetzalcoatlus that exist in the same area are called a procession. They may not group together and must remain as separate groups.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Quetzalcoatlus have no engagement/hunting limits beyond their grouping.
Processions do not work together to mob others.
Quetzalcoatlus do not tolerate other scavengers feeding from their kills.
Solo Quetzalcoatlus may hunt up to Medium tier.
2+ Quetzalcoatlus  may hunt up to Large tier, and albino Apex tier.
Quetzalcoatlus may also hunt offspring of adolescent and below of any tier.
Adolescent Quetzalcoatlus will not engage in defense against predators when an adult or one of their siblings is being hunted. However, one Adolescent Quetz may engage in a hunt with the rest of their committee.
Solo Adolescent Quetzalcoatlus may attempt to hunt up to Small tier.
Quetzalcoatlus will avoid Hatzegopteryx if outnumbered. However, Quetzalcoatlus will hunt them if they outnumber them.

Preferred Prey/Diet
Quetzalcoatlus is primarily a lazy hunter, and prefers to challenge and bully other carnivores up to their hunting tier off of their kills over hunting, or to steal hunts from other carnivores.
Before hunting anything else in LOS, Quetzalcoatlus will hunt offspring from adolescent and below and deathscarred creatures of any tier.
The secondary preference are injured / sick and Albino species up to Large tier. This is up to Apex tier when in a group of 2 or more.
Finally, healthy targets up to Medium tier when solo, and Large tier when in a group.
Quetzalcoatlus will readily cannibalize others of its kind that are adolescent and below and unrelated to them. However, in times of desperate hunger, they may even cannibalize one of their own offspring.
Quetzalcoatlus will also hunt Hatzegopteryx if they outnumber them. When Hatzegopteryx outnumbers Quetzalcoatlus, Quetzalcoatlus prefers to avoid them entirely.
Quetzalcoatlus may feed from the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects.
 
Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 1 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 3 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
Quetzalcoatlus prefer to nest in high places, such on sheer cliffsides, tall rocks, and etc, allowing them to watch for threats and keep young out of reach of hungry carnivores. Their nests are made out of roots, reeds and mud.
Same sex pairings do occur. Female same sex pairings may adopt orphaned Quetzalcoatlus if feeling broody, whereas male same sex pairings do not. Opposite sex pairings never adopt.

Physical Dimorphism
Quetzalcoatlus have only color dimorphism between sexes.
This profile has high and low T individuals. Females who are high testosterone are brighter in color, and males who are low testosterone are duller in coloration.
♂️ Males tend to have brighter, flashier colors to impress females, specifically on their wings, faces, and crests. Males who have yet to nest are called lords, and males who have nested are called dukes.
♀️ Females tend to be duller or greyscale. Females who have yet to nest are called ladies, and females who have nested are called duchesses.
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Quetzalcoatlus offspring, known as chicks, typically hatch alone without parent supervision, with the only company that they have being their siblings. It is common for siblings to scrabble with one another for space and their parent’s attention. The largest and strongest tends to be the most successful at getting itself fed, so siblings are highly competitive with one another.
Since Quetzalcoatlus nests are placed in high places, some squabbles may result in smaller Quetzalcoatlus chicks to be shoved from the nest, resulting in less competition for the larger chicks and less mouths to feed for the parents. The corpse of the fallen chick may also be fed from at times.
Squabbles amongst chicks will only ever result in a chick dying if the chicks are desperately hungry, 25% hunger or lower. Otherwise, these fights will rarely go below half-health, as overly violent chicks risk being shoved out.
Both parents will be present in rearing offspring - but even then, they only watch as their children peck and shove one another. Quetzalcoatlus parents are not affectionate and eagerly await the day where they do not have to attend to their squawking mischief-makers.
Chicks will remain in the nest or on the cliffside they hatched on until Juvenile. At this point, their parents will teach them how to fly by encouraging them to jump or by fully pushing them off the cliff. Chicks take to flying quickly, and find it exhilarating. They will fly around each other, learning how to avoid colliding with other Quetzalcoatlus and terrain, and learning how to land safely.
Some chicks take more time to learn, and some go through one or two rough landings before getting the hang of it. Chicks that try to run to their mothers for comfort, will instead get clacked at.
Once the chicks can fly, parent Quetzalcoatlus will begin teaching their young how to hunt, sending them off on critters so that they don’t have to worry about feeding them. Chicks seeking their parents approval will often bring scraps of their kills to the parents. Some chicks will attempt to steal each other’s kills in order to receive parental approval.
The father may leave the nest as soon as the chicks reach adolescence, with the mother staying behind longer. This is often to seek other females or hunting opportunities further afield. Fathers will often only remain at the nest if continuously tolerated by the female.
If a Quetzalcoatlus chick survives to adolescence, they will begin to venture away from the nest, exploring the nearby land; pecking at bugs or sneaking bites of meat from their mother’s kills. A mother will tolerate this from the strongest or oldest chick but from none others.
As the Quetzalcoatlus chick continues to grow, a mother Quetzalcoatlus will eventually grow restless and bored, moving on and away from her previous chicks to stretch her wings and maybe find another mate. Some sub-adults can chase after their mothers if there is space, but most will not.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
When orphaned Quetzalcoatlus hatch, they patiently and instinctively wait for a parent to eventually return. When they never do, they begin to call and clack their beaks in desperation. These chicks often are seen running around on the ground, ducking into bushes and pecking at corpses to survive.
Orphaned Quetzalcoatlus are typically not strong enough to fly until they reach Juvenile. At that point, they will instinctively find a cliff to throw themselves off of, doing so again and again until their wings catch the air and they fly for the first time.
Orphaned Quetzalcoatlus will mainly scavenge and hunt critters, until they are large enough and bold enough to attempt to push another creature off of its prey.
Orphaned Quetzalcoatlus are often sharper, more cunning, and independent than their nested counterparts. They will often be slightly more possessive of their resources (resting places, favored perches, food, etc) and will peck at other Quetzalcoatlus that attempt to intrude on their space.
Orphaned Quetzalcoatlus chicks will avoid all larger Quetzalcoatlus to avoid being eaten.
However, broody same sex female pairs may chase down unwilling orphans to forcibly adopt them. This is quite frightening for the orphan, but eventually they learn to accept their new parents.
Orphaned Quetzalcoatlus chicks will often mainly scavenge, but will not engage in bullying individuals off of their corpses until they are full grown.
Bild
Quetzalcoatlus can often be seen perched on tall rocks or trees, observing other creatures from a distance and sunning their wings to cleanse themselves of parasites. These massive flying creatures move quite quickly on the ground and when choosing to engage with prey, will land in order to pursue and impale them on its large beak.
Quetzalcoatlus are almost always on the move, looking for prey to follow. Their travels often follow migrations or carnivores, looking for the opportunity where a body could drop to feed from, or a weakened carnivore they could challenge for the prey they’ve hunted.
Quetzalcoatlus will frequently choose the path of least resistance, and will avoid conflict with other, larger carnivores when possible. If they can easily find a hunt or food opportunity that takes no real effort on their part (bullying small carnivores or a free dead body), they will do so.
Quetzalcoatlus are not driven in any form of the word. They let their wings guide them and the wind lift them to where they need to be. They are very passive and casual, and are more willing to just let things happen to them.
Males are typically more of a show-off than their female counterparts. They are louder and flashier, and will proudly broadcast after bullying someone off their corpse or hunting prey. They take pride in their bullying and may briefly form groups with other males to stalk large prey, or to bully larger carnivores off of their hunts. They are always looking for females to impress and often will abandon current mates and nests to seek other opportunities. Males often die young due to their impulsiveness and ego.
Females are quieter and more cunning, but can be impressed by the males’ gaudy displays of confidence and ego. They are strategic and watchful, and will prefer to wait out carnivores and herbivores until they are completely exhausted. All decisions made in a female’s life are with specific reason, from hunts, to mates, to how she raises her children. Females who have made it far in life are often approached by young, excitable males.
Albino and melanistic individuals will only be accepted in their adulthood, on the basis of strength or intelligence. Quetzalcoatlus chicks who are melanistic or albino are always at risk of being tossed from their nests.
Quetzalcoatlus are opportunistic creatures, and will often take advantage of any weak points in a herd or in another Quetzalcoatlus that they can identify.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Quetzalcoatlus are often seen roosting communally, and most often in the early morning or at night, when they must wait for the sun to generate rising thermals to make it easier for flight. Quetzalcoatlus may also be seen roosting immediately after a filling meal, preening and sunning themselves to rid of parasites.
These roostings most often occur on tall trees or cliffsides.
Resting periods are brief and common, as a lack of sleep makes coordination especially when in flight difficult.
 
Bild
Most Quetzalcoatlus are selfish creatures, preferring to feed themselves over the weak or young. Males may attempt to impress females at times with displays of “generosity” bringing them food or items that they think are interesting.
As perpetuated in their youth, Quetzalcoatlus will always squabble with other Quetzalcoatlus, especially over prime portions of a corpse or the pride of a kill. These bickering matches tend to be through pecking, clacking their beaks, and more often than not result in the group splitting afterwards.
As sub-adults, Quetzalcoatlus may group with any surviving siblings, but will abandon them at any opportunity of a mate (unrelated opposite sex individual).
Close or bonded Quetzalcoatlus will preen each other’s necks and sunbathe together, ensuring that every perch they land on always has room for the other.
Males will often squabble with each other, especially over prey or a particularly attractive female or hunting opportunity. They may group with other males in order to hunt.
Females are most likely to form longer-lasting relationships with other females; particularly with daughters who prove themselves to be the strongest of their clutch, but these relationships largely remain temporary. At some point, they will separate, relying on pure chance and the wind to bring them together again.
Quetzalcoatlus may fly together for a while if a particularly exciting hunting opportunity arises that would be best to be taken on by a committee of Quetzalcoatlus.
Quetzalcoatlus will clack their beaks at each other in irritation, especially if their personal space is intruded or they feel as if the other’s behavior is unsatisfactory. Simple pet peeves, or disappointing hunts, may result in a committee splitting up.
Quetzalcoatlus will not be aggressive towards other ungrouped Sub-Adult/Adult Quetzalcoatlus, unless protecting a kill. While up to 3 Quetzalcoatlus may group at a time, larger flocks of Quetzalcoatlus may calmly co-exist with each other, watching over herds and hunts.
Bild
Quetzalcoatlus will clack their beaks and broadcast loudly if aggressing another carnivore, herbivore, or occasionally another Quetzalcoatlus (while defending a carcass) – they will flare their wings to display their power and even do mock attacks on trees, rocks, or the ground to display the power of their beak.
If squabbling with another Quetzalcoatlus over food or in front of a female, they will peck, squawk, and beat one another with their wings, until the other party flees or is killed. A Quetzalcoatlus who has defeated another in this way has no issue feeding from the corpse, no matter relationships with the now dead individual.
Bild
Quetzalcoatlus will follow all kinds of herbivore herds, looking for unattended young or the old or sickly to take advantage of. If solo and repeatedly aggressed away by a Large or higher creature, they will leave in order to pursue an easier hunt. If grouped, Quetzalcoatlus will distance themselves, unless aggressed by an Apex herbivore or carnivore, in which case they will fly away.
In the event that a Quetzalcoatlus is stalking an albino large or apex that is a part of a herd or group, they will not respond to the aggression, staying still and watching.
Quetzalcoatlus will also follow groups of Medium carnivores in order to steal their hunts.
Quetzalcoatlus will always terrorize Compsognathus groups if seen. This can be a display of power for males, or a feeding opportunity for females.
Quetzalcoatlus will avoid Hatzegopteryx if solo, showing nervousness and anxiety. However, if there are more Quetzalcoatlus than Hatzegopteryx, or unattended Hatzegopteryx offspring, Quetzalcoatlus are more likely to begin a hunt. They tend to avoid these larger winged creatures due to their size and ferocity, and will choose the easy way out rather than starting a fight.
At times, orphaned Hatzegopteryx will imprint on Quetzalcoatlus. Female same sex pairs are more likely to adopt them as strange Quetzalcoatlus chicks, but will otherwise eat them. If a Hatzegeroptyx chick is adopted by a female pair of Quetzalcoatlus, they will be treated as any other Quetzalcoatlus chick until reaching Sub-Adult when the differences become too obvious to ignore.
Quetzalcoatlus will bully Rhamphorhynchus by stealing their fish, even if unable to eat them. These situations rarely if ever escalate into violence, as the Quetz will give up the fish to the Rhamphorhynchus when the incessant squawking becomes too irritating.
✦ Allosaurus
While Quetzalcoatlus expend no effort to actively assist Allosaurus with hunts as they occur, nor to lead them to potential prey sources, Quetzalcoatlus reap the benefits of stalking herbivore herds that Allosaurus hunt.
Following the signals that Quetzalcoatlus naturally give while stalking, Allosaurus whom successfully hunt willlingly share their prey with Quetzalcoatlus, who take the opportunity to freely scavenge from their corpses.
Allosaurus are, in return, not hunted by Quetzalcoatlus, even when in large groups. However, a Quetzalcoatlus may scavenge from or challenge for an Allosaurus body if found.
 
Bild
If unable to third party or bully another carnivore off of their body, Quetzalcoatlus will hunt offspring below adolescent and deathscarred individuals first, then albino large or albino apex tier creatures when 2+ Quetzalcoatlus are present, then healthy mediums or healthy larges when 2+ Quetzalcoatlus are present.
Quetzalcoatlus will never hunt a non-albino adult apex.
Quetzalcoatlus are endurance hunters when solo, and co-ordinated when in a committee. However, they typically prefer to be passive hunters and are more likely to seek the easiest option.
Quetzalcoatlus will always seek out the ill, injured, elderly, or young to hunt.
If desperate, Quetzalcoatlus may hunt and cannibalize their young.
Quetzalcoatlus may group with other Quetzalcoatlus to bully carnivores off of their corpses, but will also choose to do so independently if they think that they can feasibly do so.
If a hunt proves to be too difficult (if the prey is fighting back too hard, or there's no direct in-routes, etc), Quetzalcoatlus will give up the hunt in order to seek something easier.
At the completion of a hunt, if other Quetzalcoatlus are involved, they may briefly peck and squawk at each other to determine who gets the favored portions of the corpse. Repeated bickering at corpses will lead the committee to eventually break apart.
Bild
✦ Courtship
Quetzalcoatlus males are always the ones to initiate courting with females, typically attempting to impress them by completing a successful hunt, bringing them items of interest, or chunks of meat for them to eat. If the female accepts his gifts, he will take to great vocal and visual displays, stretching his wings before her in an attempt to further impress her.
If a female accepts his approach, she will clack her beak at him and they will draw close together, pressing their beaks together briefly, a shared moment of connection before they take to the skies in order to find a high perch to nest.
Male-Male and Female-Female pairs are sometimes formed; Male pairs will not adopt and will still elect to cannibalize all orphaned Quetzalcoatlus. Female pairs will adopt, but only rarely, and only if neither female views the chick as an easy source of food.
Female pairs that do attempt to adopt orphaned Quetzalcoatlus often have to chase down these orphans, who flee from them by instinct. Persistence will cause the orphan to give in and accept them as their new parents.
Male pairs are often loud and showy about each other and their relationship. Their goal is always to impress the other. They will dive, spin through the air, flare their wings, and spoil their mate with gifts in order to continue to maintain his affections. If a male gets bored of another male, he will leave in search of other opportunities.
Female pairs spend a lot of time preening each other; they will share perches, working together to hunt. The elder or more dominant of the females will be the one to initiate the beginning of courting - she will flare her wings, help with hunting, and bring her mate thoughtful, specific gifts. Females adopting chicks only occurs if the females are not hungry, and if they are both broody. An extended period of a female being broody but having no chicks to raise will result in the pair splitting.
✦ Nesting
The female is the individual who decides where she nests, and may even fly off away from the male in order to pick the location and get settled. The male only returns to the nest to display for her, whether that means bringing her food or posturing.
✦ Parenthood
Parents are not affectionate with their chicks, solely feeding them and ensuring that they are not challenged by any predators. They will often watch their chicks squabble, in order to see who is the strongest and most worthy of raising.
Father Quetzalcoatlus may leave the nest once chicks have reached adolescence, in search of other females to court and more hunting opportunities. Mother Quetzalcoatlus will remain until her children reach sub-adult; at which point, she will feed the chicks once more before then taking to the skies again.
Quetzalcoatlus tend to their chicks by tossing them chunks of meat and watching them fight each other for who gets to eat first.
If a chick is ill or not growing quickly, the mother may toss the chick out of the nest to avoid getting the other chicks ill, or having to feed a chick that wouldn’t survive anyway.
Melanistic and Albino chicks are often rejected, and shoved from the nest.
If a parent Quetzalcoatlus is starving (25% hunger or lower) they may choose to cannibalize their chicks.
Weak, ill, or sickly chicks may be tossed from their nest, in favor of ensuring that the sickness does not spread and that the strongest may survive.
Male-Female pairs, or solo males/females will not adopt offspring, and will often instead kill them to feed to their own offspring, or to eat themselves.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Quetzalcoatlus chicks may temporarily flock together at sub-adult to ensure survival until they find another grouping opportunity.
Bild
Male Quetzalcoatlus who have survived their bold youth begin to dull in color, becoming less saturated and therefore less likely to successfully court or impress other females.
Female Quetzalcoatlus, however, remain the same in coloration.
Elderly Quetzalcoatlus will typically be solitary, weakened by their age and with no one to help or care for them. Their beaks become more fragile and they struggle to move as quickly on the ground as they did when they were younger.
Elderly Quetzalcoatlus will prefer to keep their hunts as easy as possible, focusing on critters, unattended younglings, and other sick or dying creatures, in order to feed themselves and stay alive.
Quetzalcoatlus do not mourn, and will eat from the corpses of fallen groupmates if given the opportunity and if hungry enough.
Bild
None.
Bild
Quetzalcoatlus must still follow body down and body challenge rules.
Quetz will eat orphaned chicks, and my eat their own chick if below 25% hunger.  8.4
Quetz has exceptions to Rule 3.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 21:38
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 01:36
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Quetzalcoatlus are Large Cathemeral Aerial Carnivores.
Species can group up to 3 sub/adults with 3 offspring. Quetzalcoatlus do not adopt, unless in a female same sex pair.
Quetzalcoatlus have a tolerant nature.
Quetzalcoatlus can have up to 3 in a hunting party.
Quetzalcoatlus may hunt up to Medium tier if solo, and Large or Albino Apexes if grouped. Any Quetzalcoatlus may hunt offspring of adolescent or below of any tier. They prefer to bully other hunters off their corpses. Solitary Quetzalcoatlus may scavenge at their own risk, but grouped must contest for a body.
Quetzalcoatlus prefer the path of least resistance at all times when hunting. They prefer to bully other carnivores off of their kills than exert the effort to hunt themselves, but if unable to contest, they always choose the easiest targets.
Quetzalcoatlus group for short periods, working together briefly to hunt large prey. Quetzalcoatlus prefer to observe and follow their prey for extended periods of time as endurance hunters.
Quetzalcoatlus are not the best parents, and chicks will squabble with each other over space and food.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-40-50-70 = 180 total
Combat Weight: 2750
Adjusted Stats:
 - Lowered stamina drain for gliding
- Lowered stamina drain for hovering
- Lowered stamina drain for normal flight
 
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?