Therizinosaurus
    "Theri", "Therizino"
Therizinosaurus are a nocturnal species of herbivore, forming groups of related females and unrelated males, with one dominant female called the Dame. Females, called hens, are aggressive and territorial, and males, called roosters, are paternal and conflict-avoidant. They spend most of their lives deep in the forests of Gondwa, preferring to avoid sharing their space with other species.

⁨
Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Red
Photo: Byuul
Profile inspired by cassowaries, flamingos, peacocks, and creative liberty.
⁩

Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 08.10.2025 19:21
Bild
Apex Nocturnal Terrestrial Herbivore
Therizinosaurus form polyandrous bonds that may turn into lifelong bonds after 5 successful nests or adoptions between the same pairing. 
Same sex male pairs may form lifelong bonds through raising 5 chicks to adulthood successfully.
Therizinosaurus are sedentary when a solitary male or in a tiding, and are territorial as a solitary female or in a loom or sect, forming medium territories.)
Therizinosaurus males have a tolerant nature, unless woken up during the day, when they are aggressive. Therizinosaurus females are aggressive at all times.
Therizinosaurus may group with: Struthiomimus. Therizinosaurus also tolerate Rhamphorhynchus. 
Therizinosaurus may defend Struthiomimus when grouped with them.
Therizinosaurus shun albino individuals, and tolerate melanistic individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Therizinosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
6 Sub/Adults, comprising at least one lead female (known as the Dame), unrelated males, and sisters or daughters of the Dame.
9 Total Offspring OR Adoptees

This group is known as a sect.

or, if only male:

3 Sub/Adults, comprising males of any relation/unrelated
No Offspring
Up to 3 Adoptees

This group is known as a tiding.

or, if only female:

2 Sub/Adults, comprising females of any relation/unrelated
No Offspring or Adoptees

This group is known as a loom.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Predator Reaction: ⁨Aggressive/Headstrong⁩
Up to 2 Therizinosaurus may take part in an engagement.
Therizinosaurus males may be the second individual to engage in challenges and defense against predators if there are not enough females in the group.
However, only males who have formed lifelong bonds with females will defend them from or assist in challenges against Apex carnivores. They may choose to do this in place of other females in the group.
Males may always defend their personal space from Apex carnivores.
Therizinosaurus do not initiate an engagement, unless the engagement is a challenge, or the other party in the engagement gets within 3 bodylengths of the Therizinosaurus.
Female Therizinosaurus respect forfeit calls from all predators except Apex carnivores.
If an unmated/temporarily bonded Therizinosaurus who is a part of a sect is attacked, the second defender will always be the Dame.
If a lifelong bonded Therizinosaurus is attacked, their second defender will always be their mate.
Adolescents and below will flee to hide behind the nearest parent, and may be defended by them. They will not defend themself unless cornered or alone.
From Sub-Adult onwards, they will no longer be sheltered by their parents, and will be expected to defend themselves.
 
Territory challenge between Sects, Looms, and Solitary females:
In a territory challenge against another Sect, only the Dames may engage with each other.
In a territory challenge against other Therizinosaurus where a Loom is involved, only one female may step forward to engage.
Solitary females will fiercely defend claimed territories, but will not attempt to take over a territory already claimed by a Sect or Loom.
Territory challenge against other herbivores:
In a territory challenge against a different species of herbivore, up to two 2 Therizinosaurus. Both females in a loom take part in these challenges.
If there are not enough females in the group, a male may take the 2nd place.
Solitary males and tidings do not issue challenges for territory.
One adolescent female Therizinosaurus may engage if present in a sect, but will disengage at half-health.
Therizinosaurus do not challenge Struthiomimus over resources.
Therizinosaurus only challenge Apex carnivores for territory, but may challenge any carnivore away from their nests.
Competition with Apex predators
Only Therizinosaurus females, looms, or sects have competition with Apex Carnivores, and do not tolerate them in the same POI. These engagements follow territory challenge rules.
If a female does not wish to engage with the Apex carnivore, she must move from the POI.
She only attacks first if she is ignored for 10 seconds after issuing a broadcast and 3 aggressive calls, if the apex carnivore visibly prepares an attack move, if the apex moves towards her, or if it enters her personal space.
She will not enter the personal space of the carnivore to initiate the engagement herself, or to invite the predator to attack her.
Therizinosaurus males who are in lifelong pairbonds with a female may assist her against Apex carnivores. 
Tidings and solitary males will always opt to leave the POI after seeing an apex predator.
Males may always defend their personal space from Apex carnivores.

Preferred Diet
Therizinosaurus are primarily frugivorous, eating berries and fruit.
At times of scarce resources, they may eat carrion or small insects.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 3 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 1 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
Therizinosaurus prefer to nest in areas of dense foliage and trees, where their chicks can remain hidden in the bushes. If forced to nest in the open, Therizinosaurus will nest in areas of shade and piled rocks. Therizinosaurus construct their nests out of reeds, branches, and roots.
Therizinosaurus males may form same sex temporary or lifelong pairs. Pairs who adopt at least 5 chicks, over time, and raise them to adulthood together may become a lifelong bond.

Physical Dimorphism
This profile does not have high and low T individuals.
Males and females are both dark in coloring, with no coloring differences between male and females. However, they do have physical differences.
♂️  Males, known as roosters, are stockier, with denser and thicker feathers to help with incubating young, and quills on their backs to protect from carnivores and attacks from behind while nesting.
Suitable male subspecies include: Cheloniformis (quills), Cheloniformis (variant 1)
♀️  Females, known as hens, are slimmer, with long feathers and no quills, since they are responsible for monitoring the outskirts of nesting grounds and migration paths.
Suitable female subspecies include: Cheloniformis (variant 3), Cheloniformis (variant 2)
OPTIONAL: The matriarch of a Sect, known as a Dame, is also  more brightly colored than her female counterparts: in shades of red, orange, and splashes of white. Dames who wear these brighter colors are often preferred by males.
Physical dimorphism is mandatory.
 
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
When a Therizinosaurus chick hatches, it is fragile, wet, and almost entirely blind. Peeping and wiggling, Therizinosaurus chicks are greeted by their parents, who affectionately call back to them. Therizinosaurus chicks imprint based on the sound of the first adult it hears, whether it be their mother or father.
Chicks learn their parents’ voices over time, and become so attuned to the sounds of their shifting feathers, footsteps, and calls that even if a chick were to remain blind for the rest of its life, it will always be able to identify its parents.
Therizinosaurus hatchlings remain in the nest beneath their father’s feathers, huddling close to him and their siblings for warmth and comfort. Unless they are sleeping or there is a threat facing the sect, Therizinosaurus chicks are almost constantly making noise - especially if left alone in a bush without a parent’s warmth or attention.
Once a Therizinosaurus reaches Juvenile, it finally collects the strength in its legs to stand and waddle around, weighed down by its own heavy, downy feathers. At this point, chicks are able to see, but are still highly sensitive to light, and will duck back under their parent’s feathers to avoid the pain of the rising or setting sun.
Chicks will begin to nervously explore the shrubbery and area surrounding the nest they were hatched in, with any startling noise, sudden movement, or parent that strays too far sending them careening back to their nest for comfort. They may, at this point, begin to follow the sect during patrols.
Juvenile Therizinosaurus chicks continue to peep and chirp for their parents - these noises may evolve into alarmed shrieks if they have not heard or seen them for an extended period of time.
Once Therizinosaurus chicks begin to follow the sect, if they choose to follow their mothers, they will be quickly ferried away and back into their father’s care. While chicks do not fear their mothers, they are quickly corrected when she outstretches her claws, always returning to their father’s tail as a show of obedience.
During patrols of a sect's territory, Therizinosaurus chicks can be seen following their fathers in a straight line, only clumping beneath his tail or walking at his sides when frightened or seeking comfort.
If a Therizinosaurus chick does not have a father, they may be adopted by a different male in the group, or will be forced to maintain a steady distance between themselves and their mother.
Juvenile Therizinosaurus may play with their father and other chicks in the same clutch as them, but show great anxiety when approached by unrelated chicks or adult Therizinosaurus that are not their parents. They will always maintain their personal space from unrelated Therizinosaurus and will flee if their personal space is intruded upon.
Therizinosaurus chicks do enjoy running, playing in water, and picking up items of interest. As they grow older, they grow braver and more independent, and are more likely to stray away from the sect in order to play games by themselves.
Some Therizinosaurus chicks may choose to bring gifts to their preferred parent or sibling. This behavior is exceptionally common in males, with females preferring to be the recipient of the gifts.
Male Therizinosaurus chicks tend to stay closer to their fathers even as they age, with females being willing to push farther away from the sect to mimic their mother’s behaviors - scratching trees, calling, and stretching their claws at critters and other species that may be considered a threat to a chick's "territory".
A Female Therizinosaurus chick may at times choose a bush, a parent, or sibling to defend as her "territory," and will fiercely defend it from other Therizinosaurus in the group - unless yelled at or corrected by her mother or another adult female in the group.
Upon reaching Adolescent, Therizinosaurus chicks will no longer take shelter beneath their parents' tails, having likely been shooed out from beneath them a few times now. They will now begin to curate and defend their personal space bubble (1 body length), even with their siblings or parents. They, however, will often not aggress a family member out of their personal space bubble - it simply depends on the Therizinosaurus.
Adolescent Therizinosaurus have by now also grown out of their constant peeping, and have learned to be quieter, only calling to their parents if they stray too far from the sect in order to find them again.
Adolescent Therizinosaurus also begin to more directly mimic their parents’ behaviors - females with leading patrols, marking and defending territory and males with trying to impress females.
Adolescent female Therizinosaurus may engage in territory challenges against species different than their own - but if too hurt, will quickly flee back towards the sect or her favored bush for comfort. An adolescent female will never initiate a territory challenge against another species.
Once Therizinosaurus chicks reach sub-adult, males often choose to leave the sect in search of unrelated females to impress. Females who were born to the Dame of the group are permitted to stay, if there is room - otherwise, they may choose to leave or are driven out by the Dame, in search of their own group to lead.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned Therizinosaurus hatchlings are blind, cold, and fragile, peeping helplessly for a voice that will never call back.
They remain in the position they hatched in, peeping incessantly and moving their heads around in search of the sound of movement or warmth. Orphaned hatchling Therizinosaurus will imprint on the first voice that calls back to them - whether it be another herbivore, carnivore, or Therizinosaurus.
Even if imprinted, hatchling Therizinosaurus are unable to move, entirely blind with weak legs that cannot support the weight of their wet, dense feathers. They will call frantically if they stop hearing the voice they imprinted on, but remain unable to move until Juvenile.
Juvenile Therizinosaurus, if imprinted on another species through calls, will take their wobbly first steps in search of the voice that called for them. Constantly peeping, and at times frantic, they will search the areas surrounding for days, trying to find the sound again.
If not imprinted, juvenile Therizinosaurus will begin to wander in search of a sound. Juvenile Therizinosaurus will imprint on any species it hears, but often will prefer the presence of other feathered dinosaurs - including Citipati, Struthiomimus, and Deinocheirus, and at times, even the carnivorous Deinonychus, Kelenken, Utahraptor, Achillobator, Latenivenatrix, or Yutyrannus- which frequently results in a tragic end.
No matter the species a baby Therizinosaurus imprints on, it will always prefer to hide under its tail as a source of comfort. Orphaned Therizinosaurus are clingier with their parents and other members of their species as Juveniles and Adolescents, and tend to show more stress and anxiety when not part of a group, or when the area surrounding it is too quiet.
Adolescent Therizinosaurus will mimic the behaviors of the species it has been imprinted on, if imprinted. However, it will begin to grow slightly more independent of its parent species, wandering farther and exploring more of the area surrounding it. Adolescent Therizinosaurus who have been adopted by another species are typically not as defensive of their personal space bubble as their nested counterparts, and will allow others to get close when necessary.
As orphaned Therizinosaurus reach Sub-Adult, they begin to drift away from any parents that are not the same species as it. They will go out exploring at night and will not return to their adoptive parents, seeking the comfort of their own species as they did when they were hatchlings, but now able to find them independently.
 
Bild
Therizinosaurus are an odd, fiercely territorial, and defensive species, who prefer to keep a decent amount of distance between themselves and all other creatures.
Therizinosaurus have eyes that are highly sensitive to light. During the daytime, if moving around for any reason, a Therizinosaurus may close its eyes to protect them, relying on routine and its strong sense of hearing to move to where it needs to go.
OPTIONAL: Juvenile Therizinosaurus who open their eyes for the first time during the day time may be rendered entirely blind due to light sensitivity.
Therizinosaurus will prefer to stick to heavily shaded areas during the daytime, if forced to move.
Their feathers are a strong source of pride, especially amidst females who use their tails and colors in order to attract and receive affections from potential mates. Females tend to their feathers by taking baths in the healing waters across Gondwa. 
For this reason, many Therizinosaurus females avoid mud, non-healing water, dust, and rain when they can help it. 
This behavior is not observed on Riparia, instead supplementing this behavior with dust baths.
Therizinosaurus may be seen standing idly in the healing ponds in Hunter’s Thicket, Hot Springs, and Whistling Columns. Their legs carry a lot of weight from the feathers that cover their bodies, and while being a method of relaxing and cleaning themselves, the healing water soothes soreness from daily patrols and migrations.
Therizinosaurus may migrate to healing waters before courting, in order to clean themselves and ensure that their feathers are ready to be displayed.
Therizinosaurus are nocturnal, and will only partake in active behaviors such as courting, patrolling, nesting, and building nests during the nighttime. 
However, if a Therizinosaurus is awoken by another species: approaching a resource they are sleeping next to, or making loud noises, or otherwise being disruptive, a Therizinosaurus may wake up and challenge that creature away from that resource and out of their territory. Only the Dame and one other female may partake in these challenges.
Therizinosaurus are slow moving dinosaurs, but when provoked they are powerful. Therizinosaurus within the same Sect will challenge each other to games of running to food and water first, and will always work to beat all other herbivores to resources. 
While male Therizinosaurus opt to then shyly back away from the resource if challenged, females will defend her winnings fiercely, calling loudly and flexing her claws.
Hens are extremely protective of their tails, taking time to meticulously preen and maintain their feathers. Therizinosaurus hens work hard to ensure that their tails stay out of carnivorous reach– however, bear scars on their tails to indicate strength and survival. A hen may only allow its lifelong pairbond to groom its tail; even then, if it becomes irritated with its mate’s behavior, it may shoo them off again with pecks and squawks.
Therizinosaurus hens are also significantly more confrontational than their male counterparts, and may take part in combats against other species, sects, and other female Therizinosaurus. A male will only ever take part in an engagement if his mate or chicks are attacked.
A dominant female, known as a Dame, will lead a Therizinosaurus sect. This position is highly coveted by other females within the sect, and may be challenged for - detailed in Aggressive Behavior.
 
Therizinosaurus roosters are a bit more easy-going and friendly, socializing happily with other smaller feathered species and other Therizinosaurus within their groupings. They are more likely to shyly allow intrusions into their personal space, either opting to move away or stand there frozen if unsure of what to do. 
Therizinosaurus males tend to be mainly responsible for raising chicks and tending to the females within the groups.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Males may stay awake for longer periods  to monitor and ensure offspring are fed. In these cases, females will watch over the group to ensure the males are safe and protected.
Females will only patrol their territories during the day if she hears calls within the same POI, aware that too much activity during the day affects her vision.
She will only issue challenges towards other species that are not Apex carnivores in the day if they enter her or her sect's sleeping area.
 
Bild
Ungrouped Therizinosaurus can often be seen collecting in Hunter’s Thicket, where they will form tentative Tidings (groups of entirely males), Looms (pairs of females), and Sects (groups with one lead female known as a Dame).
Therizinosaurus are very slow to form bonds with other Therizinosaurus - even between parent and child and between siblings. It takes a long time to earn an adult Therizinosaurus’s full respect and trust - and even longer to earn the respect and adoration of the Dame.
Roosters are more likely to make immediate connections amongst each other, and with their children and siblings.
The main two methods in which a Therizinosaurus forms bonds with another Therizinosaurus is via preening - using one’s claws to pick dirt, branches, and stray feathers from another’s coat - or via bringing gifts to one another.
Therizinosaurus males enjoy bringing gifts to females in order to slowly build a relationship and connection with her. These gifts are highly treasured by females, so a male will spend a good portion of his life and time finding the perfect gifts for her.
More often than not, females are the recipient of these behaviors from males. If a female chooses to groom or gift another female, it may not be received as well as if a gift was given by her male counterpart.
Males are always happy to receive attention and gifts, no matter who it is from.
It takes a very long time for a Therizinosaurus to make a lifelong pair-bond with another Therizinosaurus. They spend a lot of time travelling, patrolling, nesting, and gifting one another before deciding to settle down with another Therizinosaurus permanently. 
If lifelong-pairbonded, a Therizinosaurus will go nowhere without their mate, and will stay close to them whenever possible.
Mated pairs will stay by each other until the end. If one half of a mated pair dies, the remaining individual will stand by the body patiently, waiting for them to rise. They will remain there until pushed out by a carnivore, and even then, will watch the body from a distance, until it dawns on them that their mate is dead. A Therizinosaurus who has lost their mate may never find another lifelong pairbond unless under very specific circumstances.
Bonded individuals will sit together and watch over one another, maintaining a secure personal space bubble, and preening one another from time to time.
If a male is not interested in the females within a group, or he is related to all of them, he will opt to leave the group to instead find another group of females to court.
Albino individuals are shunned and pushed out of their groupings at Adolescent, as soon as they begin to show their white feathers. They will be chased out of the territory by the Dame, with no exceptions, and left to fend for themselves.
✦ Tidings
Tidings continue to move around a small area in search of babies to raise or females to impress.
Tidings of Therizinosaurus do not claim territory and tend to be a bit more skittish and avoidant in the face of predators.
Tidings of Therizinosaurus are also a bit more friendly towards stranger species, particularly Struthiomimus, enjoying their help as sentries so they can get ahead of any danger.
Tidings often form close bonds with one another, and chat often. While they will fiercely defend one another from threats, other Therizinosaurus in the tiding will quickly move away from the engagement, especially if they have offspring present.
 
✦ Looms
Looms are pairs of females who have been pushed outside of their original sects, and are typically sisters or a mother and daughter. They can at times be a bonded pair of females who have grouped in order to establish a territory.
Looms are often the most volatile of the Therizinosaurus groupings, and may disperse easily. This is due to female Therizinosaurus tending to be more aggressive and defensive of their personal space.
However, once trust has been built between females in a loom, they may become fiercely protective of one another, and will prefer to stick with the other female exclusively, rather than courting or nesting with males.
✦ Sects
Sects, on the other hand, only move until they can form an established territory.
In migrations and patrols a sect is always led by the most dominant or eldest Female Therizinosaurus in the group, called a Dame. 
This female is often the most sought after by males, and tends to have brighter colors or more intense patterning on her feathers. She is the first to respond to territory challenges and to defend the group from predators.
The Dame is also responsible for establishing patrols of the Sect’s territory, which all Therizinosaurus will join on a nightly basis. These patrols are to maintain their territory’s boundary line, eat, and drink. It is very rare, if ever, that a Therizinosaurus that is a part of its sect will stray far from the patrol established by the Dame, unless nesting with chicks who are unable to move.
A Therizinosaurus sect is made up of the Dame, her daughters, sisters of the Dame, and unrelated males. Granddaughters of the Dame are made to leave when they are a subadult.
A Therizinosaurus sect will defend its territory fiercely, clawing trees and stones in order to mark its territory around the border, and patrolling it nightly. They will always return to the same spot to sleep and nest throughout the daytime.
The Dame within a sect maintains a high social standing within a group of Therizinosaurus, and is most frequently the target of the most affections.
The Dame will more often than not entirely reject affectionate advances from her daughters in the group, preparing for the day where she may challenge her for the position of Dame.
Roosters within a sect will always provide the most attention and affection towards the Dame, unless driven off or away by her for any reason. This can be because he already has chicks by another female, or if she does not like the gifts he is bringing her.
Other females within the sect, or unrelated females in search of a sect, may choose to challenge the Dame for ownership of the sect. This will be detailed in **Aggressive Interaction.
 
✦ Solitary Behavior
Solitary Therizinosaurus females are those that prefer a life of solitude, claiming and fiercely defending medium sized territories in deeply forested areas. They are quiet in their patrols, but unstoppable when they come across other species whom intrude upon or feed from their resources, issuing loud screeching calls.
Solitary Therizinosaurus males, on the other hand, are rarely solitary for long, constantly seeking the comfort of another male or a sect. They are more nervous and less aggressive than their female counterparts, and will opt to back or bolt away from danger when threatened. 
Males allow - and at times prefer - smaller creatures to help them tend to their feathers-- specifically Struthiomimus . These creatures are babied by males and are allowed to hide under their tails.
Solitary Therizinosaurus spend a lot of time idly collecting items and adding them to their hoard - these items may be recycled as gifts when they become a part of a group, or fiercely defended from other members, dependent on which the Therizinosaurus prefers.
Solitary Therizinosaurus may be seen standing in healing water at night for extended periods. If they see a carnivore, they will move out of the healing water and will stay out of it, not wanting to muddy the water with blood, as it plays a major role in them keeping their feathers clean.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Albino individuals live their entire lives solo, and are never territorial. Rendered even further blind by their highly sensitive eyes, they only move and roam at night, and will be aggressively rejected by any other group of Therizinosaurus, or avoided by any other solo Therizinosaurus. As a result, Albino Therizinosaurus can never nest or court.
Melanistic individuals are able to group and court as usual.
Some females may prefer to group with Melanistic females, resulting in longer-lasting Looms.
 
Bild
✦ Dame Challenges
Dames are always the most aggressive Therizinosaurus within a sect, over her position, territory, and personal space. She is especially aggressive towards other females, but if males are too pushy, she will yell and push them out of her personal space as well. 
Dames may be challenged for their position within a sect any time during the night.
These challenges are initiated by a subordinate female; she will call loudly, flexing her claws, shaking her tail, and swiping the air in order to collect the attention of the entire sect.
The Dame will respond by calling back and doing the same, flexing her claws, shaking her tail, and posturing to show off her scars and feathers to the sect. Depending on the Dame, this show is enough to make the subordinate female forfeit.
If the subordinate female does not forfeit, she will approach the Dame, entering her personal space bubble to begin the engagement. 
These engagements are bloody, resulting in a lot of torn feathers and screeching. A female will always attempt to target the other female’s tail, in order to destroy her honor and ruin her chance at tempting males.
A fight between a Dame and a subordinate female is typically short and brutal. It will end in either party forfeiting, or the death of either the Dame or subordinate, if no forfeit is issued.
The losing female, her lifelong pairbond (if she has one) and all other daughters of hers (if the Dame) will be driven out of the group and territory.
Males will rarely, if ever, get into fights with one another, which at the most will be verbal and a few swipes. Typically, the Dame will interfere, shouting at them both and pushing them away from one another.
Sisters will often bicker with each other over resources, nests, favored males, and personal space. If these boundaries are continuously disrespected, they may spar with one another, but these matches will never go below half-health.
✦ Shunning Behavior
If a Therizinosaurus is Albino, acting sickly (out of profile), or loses a dominance contest, a Therizinosaurus’s first move will be to entirely ignore it, moving away from it and preserving an even larger personal space bubble.
If the shunned Therizinosaurus enters this personal space bubble, even slightly, a Therizinosaurus will warn the other by issuing one aggressive call and then flexing its claws (the <-> emote).
If the shunned Therizinosaurus does not immediately make distance, Therizinosaurus will give chase, targeting the other Therizinosaurus’s tail with its claws to rip feathers from it and to make it clear that it has been shunned to other Therizinosaurus, and to give a final warning for it to disperse.
If the shunned Therizinosaurus does not leave, the Dame will be the one to drive them completely out of the territory, or kill them if necessary.
This behavior occurs no matter the relationship between the shunned individual and other Therizinosaurus, unless they are lifelong pairbonded– in which case, the lifelong pairbonded individual would be shunned by other Therizinosaurus as well.
Bild
Struthiomimus males may attempt to court female Therizinosaurus. This behavior is tolerated and at times enjoyed - but only ever recognized as playful. 
Females see Struthiomimus as loud, strange offspring, and while they still require their personal space bubble, view them as helpful sentries and essential to defending one's territory. Males see Struthiomimus as cute, scrawny baby Therizinosaurus, and treat them as such.
Struthiomimus are defended by Therizinosaurus, and are encouraged to flee behind an adult of their choosing when attacked.
Rhamphorhynchus, while helpful with cleaning parasites and bugs from beneath a Therizinosaurus’s feathers, may not always be tolerated during the daytime, especially if they are overtly noisy. 
Rhamphorhynchus who take to screaming during the daytime when a Therizinosaurus is sleeping will be scolded, and at times, aggressed.
Rhamphorhynchus are always tolerated at night.
✦ Territory/Resource Challenges
Female Therizinosaurus are defensive of territory towards all other herbivores, and ferociously protect their nests and resources. Upon discovering an herbivore, nesting or eating/drinking from a resource within claimed territory, this greatly infuriates the females and they will issue a territory challenge towards the offending herbivores.
Female Therizinosaurus do not defend their resources from non-Apex tier terrestrial carnivores. They will defend their resources from Tyrannosaurus, Giganotosaurus, and Tyrannotitan.
Two of the herbivores that they hesitate in aggressing are Argentinosaurus & Apatosaurus – these gigantic sauropods are a formidable foe, so Therizinosaurus opt to screech and vocalize their protest, hoping this will be enough to move the sauropods on.
In the event that Argentinosaurus retaliate physically, Therizinosaurus will immediately move away. However, Therizinosaurus do not leave their territory in this circumstance, and will move away in order to scream and screech at the looming sauropod, preferring not to engage directly.
The Dame may elect one of her daughters to be a sentry to the Argentinosaurus – this daughter will watch the Argent. This Therizinosaurus will never get in its personal space or attack it, but will call loudly at it in disapproval, and will be responsible for escorting it out of the territory once it starts moving again.
This is done by following at a distance where the Therizinosaurus may avoid the Argentinosaurus’s tail. A female who has been sent as a sentry in this manner will stand at the border of the territory until the Argentinosaurus is no longer in her line of sight.
In the event that Apatosaurus retaliates physically - or refuse to move on - Therizinosaurus will engage them, aiming for their back legs with their sharp claws.
Therizinosaurus females may chase another herbivore during territory challenges, and will only stop if the herbivore forfeits or if the said herbivore or Therizinosaurus do not land an attack on each other for 15 seconds.
If the herbivore turns around at that point and attacks again, the Therizinosaurus is again allowed to chase.
This is until the other herbivore leaves line of sight of the resource, moves at least 3 body lengths away, or leaves the POI in a claimed territory.
 
✦ Cross-Species Adoption
Males may attempt to adopt any species with feathers, whether carnivorous or herbivorous. These adoptees may remain with a Tiding until sub-adult, and will be protected as if one of their own chicks.
However, if a part of a Sect, the Dame will drive the adoptee out at Adolescent, and the father will not welcome it back into the group. There may only be one different species adoptee per Therizinosaurus grouping.
Dames and other females will not protect different species adoptees.
If Therizinosaurus was raised by a species different than their own, they may adopt orphaned individuals of that species. These adoptees will not be defended by any other individual than the one who adopted it.
If Therizinosaurus runs into the same species as their adoptee, it will encourage the adoptee to follow their same species.
These adoptees will disperse at sub-adult.
Bild
Therizinosaurus do not attack first, preferring to call aggressively and flex their calls in the direction of the predator on sight. However, if the predator gets within 3 body-lengths of the Therizinosaurus, 5 body-lengths of a chick, or visibly uses/prepares an attack move, it may move forward to meet the predator, claws outstretched.
This applies to any predator, no matter their size tier.
Only 2 Sub/Adult Therizinosaurus may take part in an engagement. This is most often the Dame and one other female, but targets of a hunt may defend themselves. A male take the place of a second female if the dame is the only adult female in the sect.  Chicks will also be defended ferociously by their fathers, with the second defender being the Dame.
Lifelong pairbonded Therizinosaurus will always defend each other.
Therizinosaurus females will chase a predator down if necessary. They will not stop attacking a creature until it forfeits, moves out of LOS, or is killed. Females are particularly prone to this behavior. Males will not chase if defending chicks, and will instead move away if a predator begins to flee. 
When chasing a predator, Therizinosaurus will pursue for as long as it can, unless the predator or Therizinosaurus does not land an attack for 15 seconds.
If a predator forfeits but is on heavy deathscars (covered in scarring/wounds completely, female Therizinosaurus may chase it past the forfeit, following the above rule.
If the predator turns around at that point and attacks the Therizinosaurus or one of its groupmates, the Therizinosaurus is again allowed to chase, if necessary.
Therizinosaurus do not form defensive formations beyond males ushering chicks beneath their tails, and backing away as the Dame rushes forward to take part in the engagement.
If there is no adult that is able to safely protect an adolescent or below Therizinosaurus beneath its tail, a chick will flee to deep brush and shrubbery instead, remaining entirely silent until the threat has been chased away or killed.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 08.10.2025 19:28
✦ Apex Carnivores
Therizinosaurus hens have an innate hatred for all apex terrestrial  carnivores. A Therizinosaurus hen cannot exist within the same POI as an apex carnivore, and will go as far as aggressing it during the daytime, if woken by one.
Roosters will instead attempt to leave the area, rather than challenge an apex predator.
Therizinosaurus do not have rivalries with Spinosaurus or Deinosuchus, and only respond with aggression if challenged by them.
Dames, partnered with one other female or her lifelong bond, will challenge apex carnivores upon sight. They will never flee from a apex carnivore unless the fight is lost (deathscars), or a Therizinosaurus has died. The rest of the Sect aggressively call and flex their claws in a show of unity.
Confrontations between Therizinosaurus and Apex carnivores may result in long standoffs, as Therizinosaurus does not attack on sight.
If the apex carnivores do not aggress back and instead attempt to avoid the Therizinosaurus, they follow it to escort it out of the POI, calling aggressively.
If the Therizinosaurus is ignored and the carnivore does not move to leave the POI, Therizinosaurus may attack first after issuing a :broadcast:  call followed by three aggressive calls :threaten_call: and waiting at least 10 seconds for a response. She may also attack first if the predator visibly prepares an attack move, moves towards her, or enters her personal space.
She will not enter the personal space of an apex carnivore.
Looms work together to kill apex carnivores once an engagement starts.
Therizinosaurus will kill all Apex terrestrial carnivore offspring if discovered, and will not stop until all offspring are dead.
If a Therizinosaurus kills a mother apex carnivore, and its offspring are within line of sight of the body down, the Therizinosaurus may immediately attempt to chase down the offspring, forcing them out of the territory or killing them.
 
Bild
✦ Courtship
Solitary Therizinosaurus meet at Hunter’s Thicket - while courtship does not occur here, those looking for prospective mates and groups meet here.
Courting for a Therizinosaurus is a very gradual and intentional process. Therizinosaurus are more likely to accept another Therizinosaurus based on how long they have been grouped, the types of gifts they have received from them, and if they have regularly respected their personal space.
Females display to prospective males by shaking their feathers towards them, enticing them with her coloring and patterning and the sound of her feathers moving. They affectionately call to him, and circle him to admire him.
Males who respect her personal space and do not move, simply look at her and affectionately call back, are preferred. Younger males may be more excited, rushing to approach her - which will result in her rejection.
Males, no matter whether they have been subject to a female’s display, will often select a female that he would like to devote his attention and time to. This is most often the Dame, but if too many males are opting to court the Dame, he may choose one of her daughters instead.
Males court by bringing gifts, thoughtful and intentional, to a female. A female Therizinosaurus will collect many gifts throughout her lifetime, putting them in small hoards in a set location within her territory. A female may have favored gifts that she will respond more positively to, and gifts that she does not enjoy, which will result in her rejecting a male for the courting season.
If a male has successfully impressed a female with his gifts and attention, she will begin to follow him around more closely, or allow him to approach her. They will then affectionately call at each other and shake their feathers.
If two females have received affections and attention from the same male, and are both interested in nesting with him, they may fight each other. These fights will never go below half-health before forfeiting, and do not result in an exchange of dominance between parties.
Males who are won in this way will immediately accept the winning female and nest with her.
✦ Nesting
At this point, the female will lay her eggs in his nest and then move on. If she is not lifelong pairbonded and it is during the Rainy Season, she may opt to take more than one male. 
Eggs may be split between males at a player’s discretion - a female may nest with up to 3 males during the rainy season, and must provide a minimum of one egg per male. Males must make the nesting post.
The female’s nesting timer begins when the final nesting post is made. The male’s nesting timer begins when their individual nest post is made.
If a male and female court 5 times with successful nests over multiple nesting seasons, they may opt to form a lifelong pairbond, and will only nest with each other in all nesting seasons from that point onward.
This is an optional behavior; pairs who have 5 successful nests are not mandated to form a lifelong pairbond.
Male same-sex pairings are welcome, and follow the same protocols as opposite sex pairings. However, if they wish to form a lifelong pairbond, they must adopt a minimum of 5 chicks together, over time, and raise them to adulthood successfully. 
Male same-sex pairs may be in Tidings or Sects.
Males build their nests long before courting, opting out of patrolling for a night in order to pick the prime location for his nest. Males have no qualms with being close to other males while nesting, and spend a great deal of time tidying and making their nests soft and warm for future hatchlings.
Females will stop by the nests initially to lay their eggs. Aside from this, they are very rarely around the nest, and may not be present when the eggs hatch. 
They may at times approach the nest to observe the babies and to greet them. If a male is struggling with keeping a nest under control, she will step in to correct the chicks, typically by loudly calling and shooing them back in the correct direction.
Males incubate the eggs until they hatch, and remain on the nest for as long as possible, unless hungry or thirsty, as leaving a constantly peeping chick unattended may result in it being picked off by a predator.
✦ Parenthood
Males are responsible for most of the rearing of chicks. They bring chicks food and water, and will keep them beneath his tail and under his feathers to keep them warm. He will not leave the nest to follow the rest of the Sect on patrols during this time, but mothers always will.
Males will always allow chicks to enter their personal space, and will always be affectionately calling to them, especially when his chicks are hatchling, in order to provide them with comfort and to ensure they imprint on him.
While hens will protect their chicks, they are not tolerant of any intrusions to their personal space, and will sweep them into the coverage of bushes and shrubbery rather than beneath their tails.
As chicks get older, Therizinosaurus parents become gradually less tolerant of them getting so close to them. Males will never shout at or hurt their chicks, but will flex his claws at them to shoo them off. Females on the other hand, may peck a chick that is being too persistent.
Lifelong pair bonded individuals will gently “defend” each other from their chicks, and will co-exist in each other’s personal space to guide stubborn chicks away.
Parents lead their chicks in formations known as “parades” - with the female in the lead, a gap for her to exist comfortably, the male behind her, and the chicks in a single file line behind him.
If the male of an opposite-sex pairing dies, the female Therizinosaurus will immediately push the chicks onto a different male, whether paired with him or not. If there is not a suitable male in the group, she will actively reject her chicks, abandoning them to be orphans rather than raising them herself.
Chicks will still attempt to follow their mother - and risk being aggressed away from her and the sect entirely.
If the female of an opposite-sex pairing dies, the male will carry on raising the chicks as usual.
Children who respect their parents’ personal space are more treasured than some others.
Male offspring may deliver gifts to their mothers at times in order to receive affection. While their fathers are welcoming, their mothers typically have high standards and rarely approve.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Males will disperse from their birth sects, encouraged by their father and driven out by the dame. Females may opt to stay in the group if there is room, but are otherwise driven out by the dame.
Sub-adult offspring are shown much affection by their fathers, whom nuzzle and preen them before their formal departure. While females tend to be more avoidant of this affection, males accept it happily, issuing soft excited cries.
The dame only shows any more attention to her children than she has through their adulthood if they refuse to leave the group, or do so more slowly than she would have liked.
✦ Adoption
Only male Therizinosaurus adopt orphaned Therizinosaurus chicks. Females, on the other hand, will fiercely ignore them or drive them away.
Male same sex pairings who repeatedly adopt offspring together and raise the child to adult successfully on 5 separate occasions become bonded for the rest of their lives.
Bild
Elderly Therizinosaurus begin to get slower moving, and stop chasing predators. Their colors become more desaturated, and their feathers start to become clumpy and matted (unless they have a partner to preen them).
Females tend to become grumpier on a day to day basis, but are less likely to physically aggress another creature from its personal space, preferring to vocalize their annoyance instead.
Elderly Dames may be pushed out of their dominant position, resulting in her being solo for the rest of her life, unless she has a lifelong pairbond.
Males do not change much in behavior as they age, and still continue to try to court and nest.
✦ Death
If a Therizinosaurus dies, those who are bonded to it may stay close to its body, observing it and watching over it. They will only disperse if the sun begins to rise or if a predator approaches to claim the body. Even then, they will watch from a distance, in silent mourning of the fallen.
If a lifelong pair bonded Therizinosaurus dies of age, it is typical for the pairbond to stay with its body until it peacefully passes alongside it.
 
Bild
Male same sex pairs may be formed in Sects and Tidings.
No female same sex pairs are observed in these species.
Egg multipliers used when nesting may allow Therizinosaurus to temporarily exceed the offspring count, but not permit any new adoptees.
Therizinosaurus do not imprint on any Apex carnivores.
Therizinosaurus do not have rivalries with Spinosaurus or Deinosuchus, and only respond with aggression if challenged by them.
Bild
Therizinosaurus do not attack first, with a few exceptions. In challenges against apex predators, Therizinosaurus will attack first if the apex carnivore ignores a broadcast and three aggressive calls and 10 seconds following, if the carnivore visibly prepares an attack move, or moves towards the Therizinosaurus. When being stalked, Therizinosaurus will only attack first if the carnivore visibly makes an attack move or moves into the group’s personal space.
Only female Therizinosaurus, or groupings with female Therizinosaurus, are territorial. Only female Therizinosaurus display competitive behaviors with apex carnivores.
Female Therizinosaurus may chase Apex carnivores past their forfeit. Therizinosaurus respect forfeit calls from all predators except Apex carnivores.
RULE EXEMPTIONS
Therizinosaurus may kill all Apex carnivore offspring without adhering to the body down rule [5.1].
Female Therizinosaurus do not respect the forfeit calls from Apex carnivores. [6.5]
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 08.10.2025 19:40
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 23:00
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 02:20
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Therizinosaurus are Apex Nocturnal Terrestrial Herbivores.
Therizinosaurus form polyandrous bonds but may form lifelong pairbonds after 5 successful nests. Male same-sex pairings may form lifelong pairbonds after 5 successful adoptions.
Therizinosaurus can group up to 6 sub/adults and 9 offspring/adoptees in a Sect, with one dominant female called a Dame. In a grouping called a Tiding, 3 sub/adult males and up to 3 adoptees may group together. In a Loom, 2 sub/adult females may group.
Therizinosaurus are tolerant during their typical schedules, but are aggressive during the daytime when awoken.
Therizinosaurus can have up to 2 in an engagement.
Therizinosaurus will not flee, and stands its ground. Therizinosaurus only attacks a carnivore first if it gets within 3 body-lengths of the Therizinosaurus, 5 body-lengths of a chick, or visibly uses an attack move. Therizinosaurus may chase a carnivore, but will stop after 15 seconds if no attacks have been landed, or if a forfeit is issued.
There are three different types of social groups for Therizinosaurus: sects, tidings, and looms. 
Sects are led by Dames, dominant females who lead the groups in nightly patrols, and are highly sought after by males. They are made up of the Dame, unrelated males, and the Dame’s daughters..
Tidings are groups of traveling males, in search of a female or chicks to adopt and raise. They are not territorial, and move from location to location.
Looms are pairs of females; territorial in nature, and typically a bonded female pairing, mother and daughter, or sisters.
Female Therizinosaurus have competition with Apex carnivores, and will not tolerate them in the same POI. Males, on the other hand, prefer to avoid them.
Therizinosaurus have eyes that are sensitive to light and are entirely blind as chicks. However, they have sensitive hearing, and recognize familiar Therizinosaurus through sound.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-60-75-85 = 240 total
Combat Weight: 5500
Adjusted Stats:
⁨
- Claw attack damage increased to 90 from 70
- Charged claw attack damage increased to 130 from 120
- Combat weight increased to 5500 from 5000
- Max health increased to 1000 from 800
⁩ 
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Predator Reaction
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?