Parasaurolophus
         "Para"
Parasaurolophus are large, adaptable herbivores known for their deep, resonant calls amplified by their iconic crests. They live in tight-knit herds, relying on vocal communication while they migrate over vast distances. Calm but vigilant, they migrate between seasonal feeding grounds, balancing safety in numbers with cautious curiosity.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Kittyful, Red, Stinaasaurusrex, CATAT0NIC & CrownlessCrow.
Photo: Bunzey
Profile inspired by Przewalski's horse, Red Deer & African Elands


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 28.02.2026 20:43
Overview
Bild
Apex Diurnal Terrestrial Herbivore
Parasaurolophus form harem bonds. After 5 successful clutches together or mutual agreement, these can develop into lifelong pairbonds.
Parasaurolophus are nomadic, but become territorial when nesting and claim small territories around nesting sites.
Parasaurolophus have a passive nature.
Parasaurolophus may group with: Bonapartenykus, Camptosaurus, Citipati, Iguanodon, Lambeosaurus and Struthiomimus.
1 Barsboldia below Sub-Adult may join the group. This only applies if the Barsboldia is adopted into the herd. Once it reaches Sub-Adult, it must leave the group.
Parasaurolophus may not defend these species, even when grouped with them with the following exception:
The defensive circle may allow these adopted offspring into the circle with the other fawns if they get there in time.
Parasaurolophus tolerate albino and melanistic individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Parasaurolophus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
20 Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a herd.
Herds may court, but split into smaller groups to raise young.
Once Offspring/Adoptees reach Sub-Adult, the herd must remain with up to 20 Sub/Adults. In cases where splitting is necessary, harems and family units may opt to remain together.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Predator Reaction: Flighty / Defensive
Up to 2 individuals may act as active defenders, while an additional 8 may form 1 defensive circle to protect young.
Defenders can move freely around the herd, but remain within 3 body lengths of the herd. See Predator Reaction for exceptions.
If the predator is actively fleeing or has forfeited, Parasaurolophus do not chase them down.
The defensive circle does not accept other species (with an exception to adopted young) or other herd members into the circle, and cannot swap out individuals.
Resource Challenges
Parasaurolophus only challenge or accept challenges for food resources when nesting or with offspring under Sub-Adult present.
If contested by other species outside of these times, Parasaurolophus step away from the resource.
Parasaurolophus do not accept territory challenges from any species and will simply move on.
A maximum of 3 adults (Primarily stags - if present) may defend resources such as personal space, food, or water.
Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 4 hours.
Non-dimorphic does produced half the amount of eggs in their clutches.
Parasaurolophus nest anywhere in their preferred POIs, preferably surrounded by lots of food resources.
Parasaurolophus may form same-sex pairs and adopt and raise offspring together.

Physical Dimorphism
This profile does have high and low T individuals. Very rarely, some females may present physically as males, and vice versa. However, Parasaurolophus still regard these individuals as their biological sex.
♀️ Females, known as does, have shorter crests than males.They greet other Parasaurolophus by remaining on all fours, dipping their heads and using (:shake_emote:).
Suitable subspecies include: Tubicen, Crystocristatus
♂️ Males, known as stags, have longer and larger crests that are usually brightly colored. They greet other Parasaurolophus by rising onto their back legs, lifting their heads and using (:shake_emote:).
Suitable subspecies include: Walkeri, Argonaut, Campionem
Physical dimorphism for Parasaurolophus is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
Behavioral greetings are used to help determine sex. The incorrect behavioral greeting may not be used to “trick” others into believing they are the opposite sex. When initiated, the correct behavioral greeting must be returned.
Bild
Behavioral Greeting

Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Baby Parasaurolophus, known as fawns, hatch out of their eggs precocial, but remain nest-bound for the first part of their life, hiding among the dense cover of their nest.
Fawns stay very quiet, even as their parents approach them, careful not to make noise in order to draw predators close. Though their mother is often close by, this "hider" survival strategy is particularly useful when adults are grazing elsewhere.
Towards the end of the Hatchling phase, fawns start to wobble to their feet and explore the confines of the nest - though only with a parent nearby to supervise them.
As soon as Juvenile hits for the youngest fawn in the group, offspring are nuzzled onto their feet and expected to begin migrating with the rest of the herd. This sudden change to a mobile life is overwhelming for many, and juveniles are often clumsy and slow. They are prone to calling out in alarm if they fall behind.
Luckily for fawns, mothers are highly attentive to their offspring's needs and rarely let their young stray far. At the first sign of distance building, mothers quickly turn back to round up stragglers, nosing them forward and encouraging them with soft calls.
Fawns like to remain close to their mothers at nearly all times, and often panic if they lose sight of her. However, even the most cautious fawn is driven by a strong streak of curiosity. Easily distracted, fawns find themselves fascinated by fluttering insects, bundles of objects, and other species within the herd, and usually find themselves unwittingly landing in trouble!
Play games emerge quickly among fawns, with chasing games being a favorite. Fawns race ahead, calling in delight as a "chaser" fawn speeds behind them. Eagerly, the chaser nudges the runner's tail with their muzzle before squealing and switching roles.
If play becomes too rough - especially near younger or more delicate fawns - it isn't long before a watchful mother intervenes. An irritated sneeze is given first as a warning, and fawns that ignore this can find themselves nipped by the parent.
Strong social bonds start to form between fawns, strengthened through mutual enjoyment of play. Fawns naturally clump together by shared temperaments and interests, regardless of sex. Stags and does play together without friction, forming early friendships that can persist into adolescence and even adulthood if they remain within the same herd.
At adolescence, stags begin to test boundaries by sparring with other young stags - and sometimes even adult stags when brave enough. Rushing hormones drive them to practice stagfights, and both individuals seem to take great enjoyment in doing so.
Stags peel away from their mothers at this stage, taking a far greater interest in the adult stags of the group - but especially their own father. Young stags begin to shadow these larger males, observing them carefully to learn and mimic their behaviors.
This practice extends to non-dimorphic stags and their offspring as well.
Does remain close with their mothers, but expand their social circles to all other members of the herd. They learn social cues, spend time showing affection and grooming to other members, and understanding important methods of communication.
Stags begin performing in front of does of all ages, often strutting in front of them and shaking their crests to show off. Older does sometimes humor these young stags, offering gentle encouragement with a shake of their head, but some turn their backs deliberately, sneezing to show their disapproval.
Due to the strong bonds built throughout their youth, both sexes usually remain within their natal herd unless resources are especially slim. This can also occur when crossing paths with another herd that seems to have better opportunities for them, though is less likely.
Once offspring reach Sub Adult, they are recognized as adults within the herd, and are expected to behave as such. 
This includes night patrols, defensive circles, and active defending as needed.
Offspring tend to remain within their natal herd, preferring to stick with those they have closely bonded with their entire young lives.
Some may wish to branch off if numbers get too high or resources are too thin for their personal comfort, but are likely to return if circumstances change.

✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned fawns start out in life much the same as those with parents - they stay within the confines of where they were hatched, resting silently in the coverage to avoid attracting predators.
Through necessity and hunger, fawns wobble to their feet somewhat quicker than other offspring, and begin getting up to move before the end of the hatchling period.
Instinct drives them to seek out similar species to themselves - other hadrosaurs and similar species are looked for as potential surrogate parents. Iguanodon, Barsboldia, Lambeosaurus, Tenontosaurus and even Camptosaurus are followed if other Parasaurolophus cannot be found.
The orphan remains persistent in following their new surrogate parent. If they find a Parasaurolophus herd, they are usually adopted into it without issue - and even many hadrosauridae and similar species show considerable tolerance - perhaps even affection - to orphaned fawns.
Individuals that never manage to encounter other Parasaurolophus - or friendly species that tolerate them - end up as much quieter adults, and often struggle to interpret common social cues. Over time, this behavior can be improved.
Bild
Parasaurolophus are a highly social species, and group in large numbers that migrate together in mixed sex groups.
Social bonds between groups are built on mutual respect. Both stags and does are considerate of each other; over-aggression from either sex is quickly corrected by others, and results in shunning from the rest of the group if these corrections are repeatedly ignored.
Parasaurolophus are cautious and observant, and frequently scan their surroundings for danger, even while foraging.
Their movements are typically slow and steady on all fours, allowing them to conserve energy during travel and grazing moments. When startled, they rise up onto two legs, and are capable of sudden bursts of speed.
They are diurnal, active during the day when they migrate and search for new food and water sources. At night, they locate a place to settle and rest, preferring to clump together in a large group for protection.
While the herd sleeps, a maximum of 2 stags (or sometimes does, especially if there are low numbers of stags in the herd) remain awake during the night. These individuals patrol around the sleeping group on their hind legs, or may opt to sit at a good vantage point to keep watch.
These patrollers swap out with others throughout the night, with patrollers leaning down to nuzzle a chosen individual awake in order to pass the duty on. Some Parasaurolophus prefer to patrol for longer periods, while others do much shorter shifts, preferring to defer to others and settle down to sleep.
Parasaurolophus prefer open areas where they can clearly see their surroundings. They become uneasy in forested or high coverage areas, aware of the potential of predators hiding in the dark.
Parasaurolophus are extremely vocal throughout the day, calling out a chorus of songs that become infectious throughout a herd. A continuous song ensures the content status of a herd, often only dwindling to silence at times of stress or uncertainty.
The opposite is true at night times, with Parasaurolophus quick to correct others that become too noisy while the herd tries to rest.
Parasaurolophus are creatures of habit - they follow familiar migration routes with reliable access to food and water. These migration routes are often passed down between generations, with each herd developing and maintaining its own distinct route over time.
Due to their continuous migration, some Parasaurolophus may be found laying in shallow water for a short periods of time to relax and cool off.
Parasaurolophus do not drink salt water, but may take a couple of sips (no more than 5 seconds) when plagued by internal parasites. Herdmates regard this behavior nervously, and temporarily avoid the individual through fear of catching their sickness.
In some instances when agitated, stags can be seen kicking their hind legs at the source of their unhappiness or staring intensely.
✦ Downtime Behaviour
Night is a time for rest and bonding; while the herd does not migrate, court, or move much, there are some activities that are acceptable during these late night hours. Parasaurolophus do still need to get some sleep, but are no longer required to sleep for the entirety of the night. The herd often huddles together, though some may split off to rest within their harems or pairbonds away from the main group, but always close enough for the patrolling stag to watch over them.
Parasaurolophus that wish to socialize during downtime may call other herd members over using the :claw_emote:. Those that respond may join them and enter their personal space. From there, they may call softly or gently rub their heads together as a form of grooming, helping reach places the other Parasaur cannot.
Fawns younger then Adolescent may play during this time, unable to remain still for prolonged periods of time, they work on developing their social skills and establishing relations with other offspring close to their age. Their play way consist of playing hide and seek around sleeping adults, or chasing each other with quiet calls. Fawns that are overly disruptive may be corrected by herd members they wake up with harsh stares. 
Fawns that continue to be disruptive and wake various herd members will be escorted back to their mothers by the stag or doe that is currently patrolling. Parasaurolophus may do the following during downtime:
Adolescents play under adult supervision while others sit nearby, socializing and watching the fawns.
Night patrols with a maximum of 2 stags patrolling.
Bild
✦ General Communication
Parasaurolophus are highly expressive creatures, and use a range of calls and body language to communicate with each other and the world around them.
Calls and body language vary between individuals, but broadly:
Discomfort, disapproval, or unease can be shown in a variety of ways - but are commonly expressed through sneezes, scratching at the ground repeatedly, or looking around - as if on high alert. These behaviors are not signs of aggression. 
Affection, contentment, or care for one another is shown with soft coos, excited and playful calls, and shaking against each other.

✦ Herd Behavior
Parasaurolophus herds maintain strong internal harmony, where individuals share space with one another peacefully and offer respect, regardless of gender.
Bonded individuals - such as harem members, pairs, close kin or tight friendships - often travel side by side together, taking time to groom, nuzzle and call to each other during migrations.
Both males and females seek out bonds with others, regardless of sex. They engage in gift giving behaviors, play games of chase, and show affection.
Oftentimes, stags take care to offer additional gentleness towards does. They step aside to enable does and their young to eat first, and instinctively walk on the outer edge of the herd to shield them from danger. These gestures are considered deeply respectful and attractive by does, and play into their decisions when it is time to choose a partner for nesting.
Mutual grooming is also something observed between particularly close individuals, grooming partners face one another - head to tail - nuzzling and brushing against the other.
When resources are plentiful, herds readily accept other Parasaurolophus into their group when they encounter strangers, excited to meet new faces.
While Parasaurolophus are social towards their own species, they may tolerate another herd in the same POI for only one full day–night cycle before moving on to seek fresh resources. During this time, herds may interact and even exchange members.
Once a herd departs, the remaining herd cannot follow; understanding that the herd's need for resources is too great and rather than cause any inter-herd disputes, will simply part and seek out their own path.
If the second herd attempts to leave with the first, the departing herd may sneeze them away in an attempt to deter them from following further and protecting their resources along their chosen migration route.
Parasaurolophus also play games of chase even in adulthood, initiated by excitedly calling out and running ahead of the other. One or several others may wish to engage in the game, chasing after the initiator.
These games do not ever become physically aggressive and should playmates bite or hit, they are promptly corrected by other herdmates.
Once corrected, Parasaurolophus are highly unlikely to display this behavior again to keep from upsetting their position within the herd and risk being shunned.
Both does and stags participate in correcting other herdmates when overly aggressive behavior is displayed. Does prioritize correcting unruly fawns, beginning with a sneeze - and then following up with a nip. Stags use their bodies to block other aggressive individuals, and intervene when individuals appear to be going too far.
✦ Herd Structure
Parasaurolophus herds are loosely structured, guided by a lead stag and lead doe(s) who maintain cohesion by deciding migration routes and mediating tension, and allowing herd-mates to share space peacefully in a socially tolerant dynamic.
✦ Lead Stag
The lead stag travels at the front, using his calls and experience to determine travel routes; however, an inexperienced stag may lead the herd into dangerous or resource-poor POIs, which can cause disruption or quiet judgement of his leadership by his herd members.
Holding this position offers many advantages for the lead stag. He gains favor with the does by demonstrating strong leadership, wise decision-making, and the ability to defend the herd from predators. Typically, he also holds the largest harem. 
This harem, who upon seeing him repeatedly paw the ground (:claw_emote:) after courtship,  will often be the first to place their nests.
If a lead stag seems unfit for the role, he may be challenged for his position by another stag. This is done by the challenging stag running to the front of the herd, cutting off the leading male and stomping his feet down before him, following it with an aggressive (:threaten_call:) call. This challenge cannot be ignored by the lead stag, and must be answered within 10 seconds of the challenge being issued.
Once the challenge begins, it will fall into the Rut behavior described within Courtship.
The position of lead stag may only be challenged for once per migration (session). If the herd does not agree with the winning stag's choice of direction, they may split off from the main herd. 
Each lead stag may only be challenged once. If this position changes to a new stag, the new lead stag may be challenged by another stag.
✦ Lead Does
The role of lead doe, unlike lead stag, is a fluid role that changes based on the social dynamic of the herd.
Lead doe(s) are typically does who are part of the lead stag's harem.
If these individuals are inexperienced or show unwillingness to step into this position, a more experienced doe may step up.
If the lead stag has no does within his harem present or has yet to bring does into his harem, an experienced doe, regardless of relation to him, will step into this role.
These does select nesting locations alongside their Lead Stag. They may reject the stag’s chosen site if it does not meet their standards and guide him and the herd to a more preferred area.
When the herd is approached by newcomers, lead does are the first to step forward and accept them into the herd.
Should an individual begin to act over-aggressively, the lead does are the first to step in and correct. This is done with the support of the herd as a whole - should the aggression continue they collectively will shun the individual.
These does may offer corrections to unruly fawns if their mother is unable or unwilling to do so, aiding in support to newer or overwhelmed mothers.
While the lead stag typically guides the herd, the lead doe(s) offer support and can disagree with his chosen route. They are the first to stop the migration and attempt to redirect the lead stag. Disapproval is displayed by stepping in front of the stag and halting him with harsh stares ( :looking: ). Should he choose to ignore the lead doe(s), he puts his relationship with his harem at potential risk.
Should multiple lead does disagree on the new direction the herd takes, the herd will follow the route which the majority of the lead does decide, though if it is an even split, the stag must make a decision.
Lead does may still guide the herd during migration.
 
✦ Solitary Behavior
Solitary Parasaurolophus are rare, with almost all individuals instinctively seeking the safety of groups.
However, some individuals - most notably stags - travel alone at certain times of the year, especially if recently shunned from a herd, or in search of new bonds. 
These males remain alert and cautious, using the terrain and coverage to their advantage.
Solitary individuals in search of others of their kind are highly vocal when in open ground, hoping to hear their calls echoed back by others. They call to reconnect with familiar herd mates, or find connections in others. 
They only attempt this when visibility is clear and predators can be spotted in ample time.
Long term, unwanted solitude results in heightened wariness and signs of stress in Parasaurolophus. They paw at the ground and appear restless, and frequently travel exclusively on their hind legs.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Both albino & melanistic Parasaurolophus are accepted and cared for by their herds.
Albino Parasaurolophus are especially sensitive to heat and bright light, often seeking shade during the hottest parts of the day. Their delicate skin and eyes make the Dry Season particularly harsh, so small baths or frequent stops within the shade are prioritized to help them cope with rising temperatures.
Melanistic individuals do not suffer any additional health concerns. However, due to their darker scales, they may be more prone to feeling the harsher Dry Season heat, seeking shade on their migration routes often or cooling off in water. These individuals might also be more prone to socialising at night due to the cooler temperature.
Bild
In order to express frustration towards another para, a Parasaurolophus may do one of the following:
Sneeze directly at a Para;
Bite at the air at a Para; they may NOT land this bite;
Kick at the air at a Para; they may NOT land this kick.
These motions are only done once; and are immediately respected by the offending Parasaurolophus.
A Parasaurolophus shows recognition of these corrections by moving away at least 1 bodylength.
✦ Correcting Over-Aggression
Over-Aggression is extremely uncommon.
Parasaurolophus do not aggressive call each other other than when in a rut or correcting other’s over-aggressive behaviors.
Parasaurolophus do not attack each other with flails or stomps unless in a rut.
Persistent aggression is dealt with swiftly within the herd - and is corrected once herd members notice the behavior, with individuals stepping forward to form a barrier.
Correction begins with sneezing, followed by aggressive calls and body blocking to disrupt the aggressive behavior.
If the behavior continues, firm nips get aimed at the aggressor.
Other members of the herd quickly rally to help, moving forward and calling aggressively to push the offender away.
Usually, such an escalation is unnecessary - Parasaurolophus are often quick to respond to corrections, not wishing to upset their place in the herd.
If the behavior continues despite corrections from the herd, the group will shun the over-aggressive individual for the safety of the herd.
Over aggression is never tolerated or defended by other herd mates regardless of relations, and any attempt to defend the aggressive individual will lead to both individuals being shunned from the herd.
Bild
✦ Adopting Other Species
Both does and stags may adopt orphaned Parasaurlophus and sometimes adopt orphaned Iguanodon, Lambeosaurus, and even lone  Barsboldia
These species are largely similar to Parasaurolophus, and may take a single adoptee as a surrogate fawn, treating it as if they were their own offspring.
The herd will only tolerate a maximum of 1 Barsboldia adoptee in the herd at any time.
Once adopted, the offspring may be permitted to shield inside a defensive circle during predator threats.
Adoptees no longer receive protection once they reach Sub-Adult.
✦ Other Species Herdmates
Parasaurolophus group and herd alongside Bonapartenykus, Camptosaurus, Citipati, Iguanodon, Lambeosaurus and Struthiomimus. These species are typically similar in temperament to Parasaurolophus, and individuals frequently form friendships and bonds with them.
Citipati, Struthiomimus and Bonapartenykus are favored for both their sentry duties and their resourcefulness. Bonapartenykus are particularly useful for aiding herds in finding resources, while Citipati and Struthiomimus' alertness and loud calls serve as early alarms.
When not requiring to prioritize food for their young, resources are willingly shared with these species, with Parasaurolophus grazing contently alongside them.
Parasaurolophus do not protect these species even when grouped with them, but may call out in sadness at the loss of a bonded individual.
✦ Barsboldia & Tenontosaurus
Barsboldia are highly tolerated when nearby, but Parasaurolophus do not group with them.
Tenontosaurus are also shown a similar level of tolerance.
✦ Other Species
Parasaurolophus are more cautious around other species, but never exhibit aggression towards them - instead prioritising to move away from them altogether
Stegosaurids, such as Kentrosaurus, Miragaia and Stegosaurus, are offered a wide berth. Experienced Parasaurolophus recognize the aggression in these species, and opt to stay out of their way.
Ceratopsians and sauropods are regarded similarly - ceratopsians for their stubborn and aggressive natures, and sauropods for their large size, and pressure they place on nearby resources.
Bild
Parasaurolophus are naturally alert, and highly attuned to signs of nearby predators.
At the first sign of a threat, individuals rise onto their hind legs, appearing larger and improving their line of sight. This posture also serves as a visible warning to nearby herd mates - who often mirror it. The defensive stance prepares the herd for either a defensive circle or stampede.
If a predator is spotted, some members begin fear calling, pushing the herd to become alert. If other herd members deem the predator to not be a threat, the fearful individual is comforted and given reassurance.
Small tier carnivores are ignored in small numbers, but treated as threatening when they reach numbers of 4 or more.
If a hunt begins, defenders do not run to aid the attacked herd member. The attacked individual must run to the herd for protection, within 30 seconds.
When an Apex carnivore is spotted, Parasaurolophus begin to repeatedly fear call and flee, alerting the rest of the herd to the danger and triggering a stampede.
✦ Solo Predator Reaction
Without the protection of a herd, Parasaurolophus can become more nervous and may opt to flee or become defensive when a predator is spotted.
Solo Parasaurolophus, when attacked, continue to flee or become defensive.
If a Parasaurolophus opts to fight, they may move to adjust their position, but will not chase their attackers.
This does not apply to Apex predators, as they must still flee from them on sight.
✦ Duo Predator Reaction
A pair of Parasaurolophus are more confident together. However - when a predator is spotted, they may still opt to flee.
If attacked, the duo can either flee or become defensive. Once both Parasaurolophus have turned to engage the threat, they will remain together until the hunt is over. 
If the Parasaurolophus duo chooses to fight, they may move one body length apart to adjust their position and land hits, but will not chase their attackers.
This does not apply to Apex predators, as they must still flee from them on sight.
A pair of Parasaurolophus are more confident together. However - when a predator is spotted, they may still opt to flee.
When attacked, they immediately become defensive in an attempt to protect each other.
This pair will not chase their attackers, wishing to remain close to each other.
The furthest a pair will drift from each other is one body length in an attempt to land a hit.
✦ Hunted by Non Apex
Up to 2 adult individuals - almost always stags, unless there are not enough stags available in the herd - step forward to act as active defenders.
Active defenders cannot be swapped out once the engagement starts, and cannot be accepted into any defensive formations for protection.
An attacked individual must run to the herd for protection, and may receive defenders if they reach the herd within 30 seconds.
Reaching the herd is considered within 2 body lengths of the herd.
Should there already be a formed circle with defenders, the defenders may aid the herd member at risk of moving away from the circle.
The attacked herd member outside of the circle is considered to be part of the "fleeing herd" if the circle has 8 members already.
The fleeing herd can consist of one or more herd members.
Any Parasaurolophus may use a tail attack in self-defense while being hunted without being counted as a defender
If they turn to face the predator or kick them with their forelegs, they are an active defender.
If the Parasaurolophus does not reach the herd in 30 seconds or turns to engage the predator, it is counted as a defender
Active defenders move freely and chase within 3 body lengths around the herd. No minimum distance is required between the circle and active defenders.
However, there are some exceptions:
If a predator sits;
If a predator stands still for more than 15 seconds;
or, if a predator does not come back within reach of the active defenders after three aggressive calls and 10 seconds.
The active defenders may then charge the attacker. This is a “mock charge” paired with kicks in attempt to intimidate the predator.
If the predator(s) move to attack the fleeing herd, defenders may still run to them, remaining within 3 body lengths of a newly formed circle or attacked member.
The primary goal of these defenders is to drive the predators away from the herd. If the predators forfeit, Parasaurolophus respect it and do not pursue, relaxing as they watch the predators flee the area.
A maximum of 8 adults then work together to form a defensive circle, rushing to flush young and vulnerable offspring inside it and out of harm's way. Mothers opt to stand in the defensive circle if they get there in time, but otherwise these circles are comprised of the nearest adults at the time.
Individuals stand back-to-back in a circle, stepping forward a maximum of 1 body length to land a hit if the predators get within their personal space, before retreating back into the formation.
"Gutsy" and "Stampede" may be used non-defenders.
“Rupturing Eardrums” is considered to be a damage call, not a buff call, and therefore may only be used by the active defenders during an engagement.
The rest of the herd flees the area as quickly as possible, pushing the young that did not make it to the circle in time and the vulnerable forward to safety. The active defenders move to block the path for predators to pursue them.
If the predators pursue the herd, a new defensive circle can form from the fleeing group, forcing the original circle to disengage.
The active defenders do not change if they manage to keep pace with the predators and remain within line of sight of the fleeing herd. However, if they lose line of sight and cannot make it in time, new defenders may step forward as a new circle is formed.
Mothers can always land a hit if a predator attempts to attack their offspring under Sub-Adult, if the fawn is within a body length of her.
The mother is not counted as an active defender or part of a defensive circle unless she is in the circle.
1 Parasaurolophus may defend 1 adopted Lambeosaurus, Iguanodon or Barsboldia under Sub-Adult if they are treating it as an adopted offspring, and it is within a body length of them.
✦ Hunted by Apex - Not Nesting
Unlike other predators, Parasaurolophus flee from Apex predators on sight.
While fleeing, Parasaurolophus can defend themselves, but must prioritize escaping the engagement, as opposed to battling the predator. While fleeing, they may not attempt to purposely pace themselves in order to run out of stamina with another herd member, approach the Apex in any way, or intervene in an Apex’s chase of another Parasaurolophus.
Up to 2 Parasaurolophus can defend themselves, but always look for a route to escape. Both individuals must be out of stamina or cornered to engage the predator - but do not turn around in order to defend each other.
This does not apply if Parasaurolophus is already engaged with other predators.
This does not apply if the Apex predator is Spinosaurus, Deinosuchus, or Tylosaurus.
On sight of these species, Parasaurolophus move away - keeping their distance from them and the body of water they reside in.
Parasaurolophus become more nervous and skittish, knowing that these Apexes are in the area and do not approach the body of water that they are residing in or were spotted in, instead opting to move to other water sources.
However, Parasaurolophus stampede if these Apexes make any attempts to approach or hunt individuals within the herd.
Parasaurolophus does not flee from Leedsichthys, as this aquatic creature does not hunt them. Some individuals may still react with surprise or anxious stares at the sudden appearance of the creature.
✦ Hunted by Apex - Nesting
The only time Parasaurolophus will stand their ground is when at a nesting site, and there is just 1 Apex predator.
In these circumstances, if Parasaurolophus have hatchlings in the nest, they do not flee and instead defend their young. 
Those who have an empty nest or are not nesting still flee in an act of self preservation.
Parents only defend their own nests and hatchlings. 
Only 2 Parasaurolophus may defend one nest and engage with the apex at a time. In the case of harems, the father may move between his does' nests in order to help protect his offspring.
They must stay within a body length of it in order to do so, but may charge down predators that provoke them (such as sitting).
They must quickly return to the nest - the goal is to protect and drive the predators away.
If Apex pairs approach to hunt, Parasaurolophus still flee, leaving hatchlings behind to hide in the undergrowth.
 
Predator Reaction Video Example

Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 28.02.2026 20:50
Bild
Parasaurolophus may form same-sex harems, but harems built of all the same gender do not nest, even with the opposite sex outside of the harem. They may, however, adopt.
In each opposite sex harem, there will be one "head stag," who reserves exclusive rights to nesting with all of the females in the harem. 
He may have a additional stags in his harem, typically more submissive, low testosterone, or with a same sex preference, who are not permitted to nest with the head stag's does.
✦ Courtship
Parasaurolophus start courtship in open areas with good visibility, where they are able to remain alert for any predators, and have enough room for performing males.
Does interested in courtship approach stags, issuing low affectionate calls and brushing up against them to gain their attention.
This triggers a response in the herd as other interested does follow suit, beginning flirting behavior with the males for a short time. Once the stags are prompted into action, the does go and settle down together, waiting to watch the upcoming displays.
Non-dimorphic does still show courtship interest, though produce fewer eggs in their clutches. They do not attempt rut displays, even if "high testosterone".
✦ Ruts & Displays - Dimorphic Stags
All dimorphic stags must put on a courting display in order to court and nest for that season.
The only exception to this is those that have established a lifelong pairbond.
However, life bonded individuals may still wish to display for their chosen mate.
Stags stand on their hind legs and begin to display in a clear, open area. They use loud calls, swing their heads, flick their tails, and shake to show off their size, muscles, and colors.
If one stag enters another stag's space while displaying, this may quickly turn into a fight, known as a rut.
This begins when one stag becomes displeased with the other encroaching on his own display "stage". The offended stag stomps his legs down in a gesture of challenge, aggressive calling to the other stag to force him to consider his actions.
Stags that decide not to accept the challenge simply shake their head and step away from the displaying male in order to find a spot of their own.
If the other stag accepts the challenge, he returns the aggressive call in response, before both males rise onto their back legs.
Stags meet in the middle, attacking each other a maximum of 2 times each with their front legs, before backing up and calling/displaying once again.
The two stags pace from side to side; taking only a few steps to size up the other stag while they continue to call and display. After a few moments of this, they stop and face each other once again before meeting in the middle to exchange blows.
This continues until one forfeits by dropping on all fours, turning their back, heart calling, or once one drops to 50% health.
Should a stag forfeit or lose in a rut, this does not lessen his standing with the herd or does - self preservation is also a desirable trait.
Ultimately, it is a doe's choice in which stag she will nest with. Stags that are not chosen do not hold a doe's decision against her.
✦ Passive Courtship
Non-Dimorphic stags may also display, but dimorphic stags may opt to refuse to rut with them, depending on individual personalities.
If a dimorphic stag chooses not to accept a challenge from a non-dimorphic stag, he instead moves away from these displays.
Oftentimes, non-dimorphic stags resort to passive courting by giving food and items certain does may desire. 
However, dimorphic stags may also take part in this behavior - especially towards females who have been won over by a stag he has recently lost a rut with.
If caught by the harem's stag, or an onlooking doe within the harem, regardless of whether or not the passive courting stag is dimorphic, the harem stag aggresses the male away. Returned aggression results in a rut.
He cannot challenge for this doe again during this particular courtship season.
Stag Rut Demonstration

✦ Lifelong Bonds
Parasaurolophus, while primiarily harem creatures, sometimes opt to form lifelong bonds with individuals within their harem. They may form multiple lifelong bonds and form a lifelong harem, who they will stay close to and travel with regardless if any of the rest of the herd is present.
A lifelong bond within a harem may take the form as one of the following options:
Two individuals in a monogamous pairbond;
Two individuals who remain together for life, but allow other does to flow in and out of the harem freely;
Or, harem of individuals who all opt to stay with one another that remains unchanging.
If a doe is continuously wronged, abandoned, or ignored by a stag after forming the lifelong bond, she may mournfully leave the harem. Does who have recently left a lifelong harem enter a short mourning period, where they refuse to nest or court until the mourning period is over.
Stags often proudly display for their lifelong bonded does, and bring them food and other gifts to show their constant devotion.
It is not mandatory for stags to rut or display in order to impress their lifelong bonded females. Instead, does indicate readiness to nest by flirting with him along with the rest of the herd when courtship begins.
When a stag sees another stag attempting to court his lifelong bond, he may intervene and begin a rut or allow the behavior.
Should this happen during nighttime, he may block the stag with his body and direct a sneeze in the offending stag's direction, which is respected.
Should the new stag win the rut and the doe remains disinterested, she will make her choice clear in affectionately calling her lifelong partner.
When a doe sees another doe attempting to court her lifelong bond, she may intervene or allow the behavior.
If a doe wishes to intervene, she will place herself between the approaching individual and her lifelong mate, sneezing only once or twice at the courting attempt.
These interventions do not result in repetitive sneezing by both individuals and never escalates to aggressive calls.
Once the doe makes her displeasure known, the stag may opt to respect this decision and remain with his lifelong or pursue the new courting individual.
Should the stag choose the new individual, the doe(s) may opt to leave that stag or allow the lifelong bond to open up and accept the individual.
Should the stag deny the individual, he will turn his back to her in polite rejection.
If a doe who is attempting to court a lifelong stag is persistent, he will turn his back to her and sneeze sharply at the ground. 
If the behavior continues, he will backup while facing her, then sneeze towards the space between them. After this, the stag is no longer pursued by the new individual.
✦ Nesting
Nesting is taken on by the entire herd. The does of the herd decide on the final nesting location, grouping together to place their nests to indicate their decision. 
If the herd consists of 20 adult members, harems split off from the herd in order to nest, preferring to avoid draining resources in one area too quickly and leave their fawns hungry. Individuals who are bonded - or simply choose to - leave with them.
Does place their nests close by to other does that they have strong bonds with, regardless of whether they are females within the same harem as her. Often, mothers, sisters, and daughters nest together, working together to construct nests and pick a sufficient place to hide fawns.
While social creatures, females do prefer some personal space when it comes to nesting, placing nests at least one body length apart.
✦ Parenthood
Mothers are attentive and remain close by to their newly hatched offspring while they recover from the arduous task of hatching. Fawns remain quiet and spend most of their time sleeping, gathering the strength to get to their feet and begin migrating with the rest of the herd.
Fathers stand guard near their chosen does or harems, patrolling the nesting ground to keep watch for potential threats at all times of day. Sometimes, stags stand watch over the nest, should the doe need to leave for a brief moment for food and water.
During these early stages, does pick berries from bushes and bring them to their offspring, setting them down close to the fawns and encouraging them to eat.
A doe is willing to leave her fawns temporarily to graze or drink water, but always keeps an eye on her offspring, even if from a distance. She relies on the solace of other females within her harem or her family to ensure that her fawns are well protected and cared for in her absence.
New mothers are especially anxious and are quite often found sticking their heads into the nest frequently to check on her young. These females are affectionately corrected by those around her, instructed instead to remain close by and settle - generally within a bodylength.
As soon as the youngest fawn in the herd reaches Juvenile, mothers and fathers are anxious to move and migrate, fondly nuzzling their offspring to their feet and leading them on their first migration.
While the entire herd takes part in baby rearing, fondly teaching them boundaries and the way hierarchy within the herd works - as well as gently correcting behaviors - mothers and fathers always stay close to their offspring.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Once offspring reach Sub-Adult, they are recognized as adults within the herd and are expected to behave as such.  This includes night patrols, defensive circles, and active defending as needed.
Adults tend to remain within their natal herd whenever possible, preferring to stick with those they have closely bonded with their entire young lives.
However, herds will branch off if numbers get too high or resources are too thin for their personal comfort, but are likely to return if circumstances change.
✦ Adoption
Both does and stags may adopt and defend orphaned Parasaurolophus, Lambeosaurus, Iguanodon or Barsboldia they may come across.
While stags lack the same maternal instinct as does, they make reliable and attentive caregivers.
Same-sex pairs often raise a fawn together, sharing responsibilities and acting as committed surrogate parents.
Bild
Reaching the elderly stage is a huge milestone within a Parasaurolophus's life.
The herd always cherish their elderly herdmates, viewing them as a source of comfort and guidance. The entire herd help care for them as they slow.
Old age brings stiff and painful joints, forcing elders to settle and rest more frequently than younger herd mates - slowing the entire mobility of the herd, who are forced to stop and wait with them.
Elder Parasaurolophus lose most of their desire to court or nest. Instead, they chose to play more of a nanny-like role, aiding does in raising the new generation, and mentoring young stags. 
Some elders continue nesting, but experience limited ranges of success. Their nests are often entirely infertile, or only produce one viable egg.
As they near the end of their lives, their scales begin to lose their pigment, with colors dulling across their bodies.
✦ Death
As they near the end of their lives, Parasaurolophus feel a quiet pull toward places of deep personal significance; favored nesting grounds, migration rests, or the resting places of bonded companions and kin.
As their bodies weaken and strength begins to fade, the elder will move toward the front of the herd, nuzzling the lead stag and issuing soft, weary calls to make their intentions known. The lead stag permits them to remain at his side, allowing the elder to guide the herd toward their chosen resting place and set a slower pace, with frequent pauses as needed.
Upon arrival, the elder takes great time in chosing their final resting place, selecting the site where they wish to lie. As the herd gathers closely, offering reassuring nuzzles and low calls as they settle around them.
The herd remains with the elder until their passing, particularly bonded herdmates, offspring, or lifelong companions, who stay pressed close and tend to them until their final breath.
Bild
Parasaurolophus form harem bonds that can turn into lifelong bonds, whether they are exclusively between a pair or an entire harem.
Parasaurolophus flee from all Apexes, unless they have a nest with hatchlings. In that case, the parents, if within a bodylength of the nest, will defend it, only fleeing from Apex pairs.
Bild
Parasaurolophus do not drink salt water, except to rid themselves of internal parasites. This is only done in extreme occasions, and only briefly (no longer than 5 seconds).
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Parasaurolophus are Apex Diurnal Terrestrial Herbivores.
Parasaurolophus can group with 20 Sub-Adults/Adults, unlimited offspring and adoptees. Males are called stags, females are does, and offspring are called fawns. These herds are led by a lead stag and lead doe(s), who determines migration paths.
Parasaurolophus have a passive nature.
Parasaurolophus can have up to 2 active defenders in an engagement. These are always stags, but does can act as defenders if not enough stags are available.
Up to 8 other adults can form a defensive circle nearby to usher offspring into. The rest of the herd flees the area.
Parasaurolophus flee from all Apex carnivores, except when nesting, when a nesting pair will defend their young from a single Apex. Parasaurolophus do not flee from Leedsichthys.
Parasaurolophus live in huge groups called herds, with the most experienced or confident individuals leading at the front.
When the herd reaches 20, harems looking to nest or adopt break away into smaller groups to prioritize resources for their young.
Parasaurolophus are a gentle species that welcome newcomers into their herds. They form strong bonds with one another and are devoted parents - sometimes even adopting orphaned Lambeosaurus, Iguanodon, or Barsboldia.
They often mix with similar species and enjoy socializing with them, remaining friendly, but always prioritizing the needs of their own herd first.
 
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes):  15-60-75-90 = 240 total
Combat Weight: 5500
Adjusted Stats:
- Max health increased to 1400 from 950
- Sprint speed increased
- Trot speed increased
- Stamina sprint cost per second reduced
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 28.02.2026 20:58
Quick Links
Top
Growing up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Predator Reaction
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?