Tyrannosaurus
    "Rex", "T Rex" 
Tyrannosaurus is a fearsome apex predator primarily found in forested areas. They are known for their territorial nature, and fiercely defend a territory from rival predators. These powerful carnivores are keen ambush hunters and seemingly blend into the environment unseen while waiting for the perfect opportunity to strike. With a jaw strength primed to take down large prey, Tyrannosaurus is a highly dangerous predator.

⁨
Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from Kittyful & Red
Photo: Monsterya
Profile inspired by tawny owls, polar bears, and creative liberty.
⁩

Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

image.png

 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.08.2025 18:22
Overview
Bild
Details
Apex Cathemeral Terrestrial Carnivore
Tyrannosaurus form lifelong pairbonds.
Tyrannosaurus are territorial and claim large territories.
Tyrannosaurus have an aggressive nature.
Tyrannosaurus are not scavengers.
Tyrannosaurus tolerate melanistics, and cannibalize albino individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Tyrannosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 2 Sub/Adults, as an opposite sex mated pair.
4 Offspring (nest multipliers may exceed this number)
Tyrannosaurus does not adopt.

Tyrannosaurus do not form dispersal groups.
Wild spawned Tyrannosaurus offspring remain solitary until Sub-Adult, due to their aggressive nature.
Orphans (those nested in, but lost both parents) remain in a group together until Sub-Adult, but do not defend each other.
Tyrannosaurus in the process of courtship may only group up in game after a full day and night cycle of courtship.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
2 individuals may enter a hunt or engagement.
In a mated pair, one individual usually acts as a diversion to allow their mate to take down the prey.
Adolescent Tyrannosaurus do not assist with their parents’ hunts.
Solo Adolescent Tyrannosaurus may attempt to hunt Solo Large tier.

Tyrannosaurus may hunt any tier.
Tyrannosaurus are ambush hunters. They do not pursue over long distances, and must make a kill quickly. If they do not land a bite on their prey before their stamina runs out, they must abandon the hunt.
Tyrannosaurus cannot sit or stop running in order to re-gain stamina.

Tyrannosaurus must push out ALL terrestrial Apex carnivores from the POI. This must be done before any other hunts can take place. 
If already engaged or with a body, the body or engagements must be finished first.

Tyrannosaurus are highly territorial, and push out Large tier and above carnivores.
Tyrannosaurus may tolerate scavengers, but always tolerate Compsognathus.

Preferred Prey
Eotriceratops, Barsboldia, Parasaurolophus, Anodontosaurus. These species are targeted first in the POI.
Tyrannosaurus cannot hunt when other Apex terrestrial carnivores are in the POI.
Tyrannosaurus never hunt Compsognathus.
Tyrannosaurus only hunt Giganotosaurus or Tyrannotitan when at desperate hunger (35% or below), unless the target is Albino, deathscarred, or aged Adolescent and below. This must be initiated as a successful ambush.
Tyrannosaurus adults may cannibalize unrelated offspring of Adolescent and below, and Albinos. Otherwise, they do not hunt other Tyrannosaurus, but may eat from their corpses.
Tyrannosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 4 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
Tyrannosaurus nest anywhere in their preferred POIs with dense coverage.
Tyrannosaurus do not form same sex pairs.
 
Physical Dimorphism
Physical dimorphism for Tyrannosaurus is mandatory.
This profile does not have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Females are the larger and bulkier of the sexes.  Females greet others with a crouched stance, growling and hissing.  [:question_emote:]
Suitable subspecies include: Standard, Stocky, Larger Jowels
♂️ Males, known as bulls, are slimmer. Males greet others with a short, sharp hiss and a dip of their head. [:claw_emote:] 
Suitable subspecies include: Slim, Larger Hornlets, Standard (T)
Tyrannosaurus do not have color dimorphism. However, during courting, males with their added testosterone may flash into brighter colors.

Dimorphism Examples
 
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
From the moment they hatch, Tyrannosaurus offspring - known as cubs -  are vocal and demanding; crooning long, purring wails to announce their presence and draw their parents close.
Though capable of walking within hours of hatching, hatchlings are vulnerable and clumsy, and unlikely to survive without close protection. They huddle together closely in the nest for warmth, mewling and crying out for food in between naps.
Nest-bound until the middle of the hatchling phase, cubs are fiercely guarded by their parents. Any species - with the exception of Compsognathus - that strays too close is swiftly and violently repelled, much to the disappointment of curious cubs.
Cubs begin to explore their immediate surroundings once they are more confident on their feet. Highly curious, Tyrannosaurus offspring often lead themselves into trouble. They test everything with their mouth - from rocks, to roots, to branches, to even a sibling or parent's tail - it all gets tested first and foremost with a snap of their jaws.
As they approach Juvenile, a more competitive nature emerges in Tyrannosaurus cubs. Larger and more confident cubs begin to monopolize attention and food, pushing their way to the front when their parents bring home a kill, and growling at their siblings to ensure they get to have the first bite.
What begins as simple playfights quickly develop into more dominant challenges between siblings. Shrieking and growling at one another, cubs try to bully one another into submission, though inevitably these aggressive calls descend into a series of painful bites and scuffles that often require parents to intervene.
Cubs not closely watched by their parents sometimes go on to kill a sibling. However, if a sibling flees away from a cub, the dominant cub does not chase them down to finish them off - and is instead satisfied by their victory.
One cub usually emerges as the dominant cub of the brood. They eat first, sleep closest to the warm flank of a parent, and push others aside to maintain their status.
Should food become scarce, the weakest cubs are at the highest risk. Submissive or sickly cubs are usually ignored by their parents, and in extreme cases are even expelled outside of the territory. Especially weak siblings sometimes risk being cannibalized by a stronger and more dominant cub.
Despite this, parents form a strong and loving bond with their healthy offspring, and cubs are keen to receive their affection.
As they reach adolescence, cubs split their time between their parents. While one parent takes to patrolling the territory to drive out rivals, the other may lay in wait for hunting opportunities, or focus on bringing back corpses for their ravenous young. Cubs enjoy following both parents and mimicking their behaviors - though are swiftly corrected if they end up spooking potential prey options.
They begin to be taught more useful skills by their parents, such as how to deliver the killing blow to prey, and practising mock ambushes on one another. Parents have been known to even show faux surprise when one of their young successfully ambushes them, which fuels excitement in their cubs.
Cubs fight less with each other at this age, having mostly established a dominance hierarchy that lasts until they disperse. Cubs do not share with one another, and do not hesitate to threaten a sibling away from a desired toy or piece of food.
At the end of Adolescent, the family dynamic begins to fray. Hormonal shifts make tempers short, and cubs even go so far as to challenge their parents for food, pushing boundaries and requiring frequent reprimands.
As soon as cubs enter Sub-Adult and become nearly fully mature, both parents, now fully tiring of their young, push them out of their territory. This is led primarily by the mother, who roars and snaps at her young to drive them out of the POI. The father assists, providing a united front.
Cubs willingly disperse. They do so alone, without their siblings, and set out to locate a new POI to establish their own territory. All familial bonds between individuals are severed - should they encounter each other again, they are regarded as strangers, and treated accordingly.

✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned Tyrannosaurus cubs face a brutal and often short-lived existence. Without the protection of at least one parent, their odds of survival drop dramatically, particularly within the first few stages of their life.
Hatchlings and young juveniles left without parents rarely survive long. Their vocal cries for their parents sometimes draw the wrong kind of attention, and serve as a beacon for opportunistic predators.
Orphans that lose their parents fare better. They remain in a group with each other, but do not defend one another, and stick together purely for the safety that numbers bring.
Those that do survive into Juvenile grow significantly quieter than parented offspring. Through necessity, they avoid unnecessary vocalizations and rarely interact with other Tyrannosaurus. Adults of their species are especially dangerous, and frequently cannibalize unrelated offspring of Adolescent and below.
Adults mature into more cautious but stealthy individuals, and tend to prefer a more solitary lifestyle, taking more time to carefully assess potential mates before committing.
Bild
Tyrannosaurus is a highly aggressive and territorial species that claims large territories consisting of an entire POI. Once established in their territory, they patrol it ferociously, and quickly drive out rival carnivores with fierce battles.
Patrols are carried out both day and night, following slow and deliberate routes that are repeated regularly, and accompanied with lots of sniffing to hone in on different scents. These routines help reinforce scent trails, and establish a visible presence to deter rivals.
Mated pairs sometimes patrol side by side, but often split up to patrol separate areas, ensuring more ground is covered. When raising offspring, mated pairs never patrol together.
Tyrannosaurus have an infamous ability to nearly disappear in areas of high coverage and foliage despite their massive size. This is utilized heavily to ambush prey, and Tyrannosaurus can lay in wait for many hours for the right opportunity to strike.
Tyrannosaurus establish their own routines in regards to courtship, nesting, hunting, and sleeping. Each individual has their own schedule that they abide by, which only truly adjusts when they begin to bond with their mate, and when having to feed and care for their offspring. 
Tyrannosaurus may also adjust their schedule to better align with potential prey in the area; for example, sleeping during the day time to attempt to ambush a Parasaurolophus herd at night.
Tyrannosaurus enjoy taking long naps, especially when it is the Rainy Season. This behavior is seen most often following a successful hunt, and additionally when it rains - if not using the rain as a cover for ambush.
Tyrannosaurus rub themselves against trees, rocks, cliffsides, and their mate in order to scratch themselves and leave their scent. Tyrannosaurus may develop favored trees or objects to serve this purpose within their territory.
Tyrannosaurus - especially younger Tyrannosaurus - are especially curious and will investigate new objects, scents, and locations via smell. They lower their noses to the object and sniff until it can be identified. Tyrannosaurus may develop favorite scents over their lifetimes, with the most popular ones being the scent of carrion, meat, or their mates.
Tyrannosaurus bulls, typically of a smaller stature, are more agile than their female counterparts. They set up elaborate ambushes in order to chase prey towards their mate, while females - larger and stronger - wait until prey gets into her proximity before swiftly lunging and landing crushing, bone-breaking bites.
Tyrannosaurus enjoy basking in sunlight when not directly attempting to hunt. In the Dry Season, they can be observed resting in shallow banks of water in order to cool down, drawing their muzzle through the water.
Tyrannosaurus are not adverse to swimming across rivers, lakes, or etc in order to find other hunting opportunities within their territory or carry on with their patrols.
Tyrannosaurus are capable of moving almost silently, dropping to a crouched position and moving slowly and steadily so as to not be detected by prey.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Tyrannosaurus enjoy taking long naps, especially when it is the Rainy Season. This behavior is seen most often following a successful hunt, and additionally when it rains - if not using the rain as a cover for ambush.
Tyrannosaurus enjoy basking in sunlight when not directly attempting to hunt. In the Dry Season, they can be observed resting in shallow banks of water in order to cool down, drawing their muzzle through the water.
 
Bild
✦ Pairs
Tyrannosaurus are not social in the traditional sense but - once bonded with a mate - form strong, lifelong pairbonds with their partner. These pairs are monogamous and remain together year round, hunting cooperatively, patrolling territory together, and rearing offspring as a family unit.
Within a bonded pair, interactions are subtle, but deeply communicative. Low, rumbling vibrations, coupled with soft calls to each other are common, with each pair developing their own method of communication over time.
Pairs show deep affection towards one another. They enjoy resting beside one another closely, shaking their heads and bodies, and touching muzzles.
When greeting each other, pairs frequently lift their heads in a synchronized fashion, flashing their throats and crooning gently. [:stretch_emote:]
Trophies from kills are frequently gifted to each other, and always warmly received.
Pairs sniff each other often, seeming to take comfort in each other's scent.
A bond, once established, is near impossible to break, often only dissolving when one of the pairbond dies.
Pairs are never composed of related or same-sex individuals, and siblings - even parents and offspring - treat each other aggressively if they encounter them again in adulthood.

✦ Solitary Behavior
Solitary Tyrannosaurus are equally as territorial as pairs, but sometimes show more hesitancy if the intruder is alone, and a potential courting partner.
Some individuals become nomadic for a period, travelling widely across unclaimed or unknown terrain in search of a potential partner. This is often much easier for solitary individuals than the pressure of maintaining a territory.
Solitary Tyrannosaurus are prone to riskier decision making without the grounding of a partner. They may attempt more dangerous hunts, and display a more reactive temperament.

✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Melanistics suffer no issues when it comes to finding a mate and acceptance from other Tyrannosaurus.
Unfortunately, albinos face an especially lonely existence. They are never accepted as mates, and do not accept other albinos as a potential partner.
Albinos are shunned by their parents as soon as their skin sheds into view.
Albinos can be cannibalized by other Tyrannosaurus.
 
Bild
Tyrannosaurus are intolerant and highly aggressive toward any other members of the same species, outside their own grouped offspring or partner.
This hostility is especially intense between same-sex individuals, with females quick to confront rival females, and males frequently clashing over territory or space.
Only when opposite sex individuals meet do Tyrannosaurus hesitate before beginning aggression.
However, if a Tyrannosaurus pair encounter other Tyrannosaurus in their territory, they turn to aggression immediately, regardless of sex.
Some Tyrannosaurus maintain territories that border each other. The distant call from a rival provokes a confrontational response, often prompting the Tyrannosaurus to rush to the border of their territory, ensuring the rival does not cross into theirs.
Tyrannosaurus cannot co-exist in the same POI as other Apex terrestrial carnivores, including ungrouped Tyrannosaurus.

✦ Solitary encountering solitary or a pair
When two solitary Tyrannosaurus cross paths, the first response is a tense assessment of the other's sex.
Same-sex encounters are immediately hostile. The intruder must be driven out, or the original Tyrannosaurus must flee the POI.
Opposite-sex encounters are afforded some hesitancy. If one of the two individuals does not initiate courtship behavior quickly, the opportunity passes, and the intruder is shown aggression.
Solitary Tyrannosaurus holding territory that is encroached upon by a pair must make a decision: either attempt to threaten and fight the pair out, or abandon the territory for themselves.

✦ Pair encountering solitary or another pair
If either member of a pair detects other Tyrannosaurus in their claimed territory, they immediately broadcast to call their partner over.
Once united, the pair confront the rival(s) together, using coordinated threat displays to drive them away before it escalates into violence.

✦ Challenges
Tyrannosaurus must challenge any intruders out of their territory, and intruders wishing to take over a territory must make their intentions clear.
Tyrannosaurus entering a claimed territory with the intention of taking it for themselves step into the middle of the POI, broadcasting loudly to draw the owner of the territory to them.
When the territory holder arrives, the two begin circling the other, roaring and snarling aggressively and snapping at the air with their jaws.
If neither backs down and flees the POI, the encounter erupts into a vicious battle. Battles are bloody and ferocious, and do not stop until one party either dies or manages to flee the POI.
If the opponent flees, the victor chases after it, nipping at the air behind them to ensure they leave. Once they leave the POI, the victor stops their pursuit, roaring loudly to declare their dominance and ownership over the territory.
The loser must repeatedly call out their defeat, either through heart :friendly_call: calling or fear :danger_call: calling as they leave. If they stop, eat, drink or quest on the way out of the POI, the winner may kill them.
 
Bild
✦ Giganotosaurus & Tyrannotitan
Highly territorial, Tyrannosaurus do not tolerate the presence of other Apex terrestrial carnivores. After other Tyrannosaurus rivals are driven out, Tyrannosaurus turn their attention to Giganotosaurus and Tyrannotitan.
These species must be driven out of the POI even if not the Tyrannosaurus' territory. If Tyrannosaurus wishes to remain in the POI, they must drive out any rival Apex terrestrials, or move on by themselves.
Tyrannosaurus approach these species, calling loudly :broadcast_call: , before issuing low, threatening roars :threaten_call: to highlight their willingness to fight.
Tyrannosaurus do not hunt these species unless at desperate hunger (35%), unless the species appears Albino, are deathscarred, or aged Adolescent or below. If hunting them, a successful ambush must be employed.
✦ Compsognathus
Compsognathus are tolerated by all Tyrannosaurus and permitted to share from their kills.
Too small to pose any threat, and not worth the effort as a meal, these nimble scavengers are allowed to move freely around Tyrannosaurus - even when they have young.
Their presence is not only harmless, but beneficial: with their narrow snouts and delicate teeth, Compsognathus can access scraps of meat deep within carcasses that a Rex cannot reach.
More importantly, they provide a natural form of grooming. Compsognathus pick at parasites, clean the area around wounds and remove debris from between scales.
✦ Other Carnivores
Tyrannosaurus may tolerate other scavengers at their own preference.
All other carnivores of Large tier and higher are aggressively challenged out of Tyrannosaurus territory.
 
Bild
Tyrannosaurus is an ambush predator that relies on stealth, patience, and its devastating bite force in order to take down prey. They focus on conserving energy, and lay in wait for long periods of time, primed for the perfect moment to strike.
Over time, Tyrannosaurus establish a network of preferred ambush sites in their territory. High coverage and good visibility is essential for a favorable outcome, and areas that hold the most success are often used again.
From these spots, they remain crouched and motionless, careful to stay silent to avoid alerting any potential targets.
A visible Tyrannosaurus is less likely to be a threat - it is the one that cannot be seen that is most dangerous.
In a pair, Tyrannosaurus hunt cooperatively. Often times, one individual breaks cover deliberately, startling prey and driving it towards their hiding mate. As the prey panics and flees into the trap, the hidden partner rushes forward to land the first blow.
Both Tyrannosaurus in a pair may ambush together, as sometimes this method proves more efficient.
After the first blow has landed, the other Tyrannosaurus steps in to aid their mate in finishing the hunt. The Tyrannosaurus who exposed themselves to make prey flee may not land the first bite.
Tyrannosaurus must always attempt to use coverage and to properly sneak up to and ambush prey. Tyrannosaurus may not walk through open areas without making it clear they are ambushing (crouching, using Red Herring to cross the distance, bursting into a sprint from coverage, etc.) and start a hunt. An ambush must always be attempted, even if detected by prey.
If seen walking out in the open, a Tyrannosaurus will not attempt a hunt unless it is coordinating with its mate who is hiding nearby.
Hunts are short, violent and decisive. Tyrannosaurus does not have the stamina for prolonged pursuit, and must forfeit a hunt if their stamina runs out before a successful bite has landed.
If bites have landed, individuals (and their partner) may pursue their prey. However, the fleeing prey must be no further than 5 Tyrannosaurus body lengths ahead of them. When this distance is breached, Tyrannosaurus end their pursuit and return to their territory.
Tyrannosaurus is not a scavenger, but is not opposed to bullying other carnivores off of their kill instead of hunting.
After a hunt, whether successful or not, Tyrannosaurus are notorious nappers, settling beside their kill (or in some coverage if it failed) to snooze and regain their stamina.

Notes:
Tyrannosaurus are ambush hunters. They do not pursue over long distances, and must make a kill quickly. If they do not land a bite on their prey before their stamina runs out, they must abandon the ambush.
Tyrannosaurus cannot sit or stop running during an ambush in order to re-gain stamina. This counts as a forfeit.
An ambush is considered as the initial charge towards prey from a place of hiding, before the first bite lands. If the Tyrannosaurus runs out of stamina, sits, or stops running before a successful bite has been landed, the ambush must be forfeited. A lost ambush begins a 15 minute timer, where Tyrannosaurus may not attempt to ambush, stalk, or hunt that prey again.,
After a successful bite landed on its prey, a Tyrannosaurus’s ambush is over, and a hunt begins. Typical hunting and forfeit rules apply past this point (Tyrannosaurus may sit to regain stamina, walk, etc).
 
Bild
✦ Courtship
Females seeking a mate do not abandon their territory, and instead remain within it, beginning a series of broadcasting calls to lure solitary males towards her.
Bulls become nomadic at this time, prowling endlessly in search of a female to court. They listen keenly for a female's calls - unmistakable as repeated, alluring roars.
After locating a female, bulls stick to the outskirts, watching her for a while to make sure there are no other partners present, and assessing her temperament.
If interested, and she continues calling for a mate, he must make a small kill to present her with an offering. Bulls that approach a female without an offering are always fiercely rejected.
A single meat scrap or intact critter is enough to satisfy a female. Bulls approach the female directly, lifting their heads to display the offering clasped between their jaws.
Females react at first with their dimorphic greeting, but keep their distance from the bull, pacing and circling him while she waits for him to present his offering. Males that do not drop a critter or scrap of meat for the female - or worse, do not bring one at all - are aggressively roared at, with the female ready to attack if the male does not leave.
Once the meat has been dropped, the female sniffs it cautiously, before picking it up with her jaws and swallowing it. The pair then begin pacing in a slow circle, rumbling and observing one another.
After some time, the female turns her back and begins to walk away into her territory, prompting the male to follow her. He must keep a suitable distance from her, but she will tolerate him in the territory.
The potential pair remain in the territory together, ungrouped, for a full day and night cycle. During this time, they observe each other closely, but keep distance, resting a short distance away.
They communicate in a series of rumbles, and sniff near each other frequently, keen to familiarise themselves with their potential mate.
The female permits the bull to hunt in her territory, but does not assist him in any way. If either of them make a successful kill, they permit the other to share the corpse, calling to each other gently.
If at any point a same-sex rival enters the territory, they are expected to remove it. Females see off other females, and males battle aggressively to push other males out of the POI.
However, in the case that another pair enters the territory, both will temporarily work together to drive the intruders out, an action that quickly strengthens the formation of their lifelong bond– or quickly ends it.
After a full in-game day cycle, consisting of one full day and one full night, if the pair seem to have bonded and accepted one another, they approach and lift their heads, exposing their necks to each other while offering low, affectionate rumbles.
A group is then formed together in game, and the pair may go on to build a nest.
✦ Nesting
Whether a bond is newly formed or fully established already, all nesting activities begin with the female placing her nest in a suitable part of the pair's territory.
The male assists the female with nest building, and both parents take it in turns to lay beside the nest, keeping eggs warm.
Both parents are highly alert and aggressive at this stage, ready to attack any species that ventures too close to the nest, with the exception of Compsognathus, who are permitted to run between the clutch.
The first nest between a pair solidifies their bond for life, beginning the start of an unbreakable, lifelong pairbond.
 
Tyrannosaurus Courtship
 

✦ Parenthood
As soon as cubs hatch, both parents become fully engaged in raising them. The female tends to the nest directly at first, keeping cubs warm, clean and fed, while the father ventures out to continue patrolling and hunting, in order to bring back scraps for their brood.
Both parents show affection towards their cubs, but particularly to those who are strong, vocal and alert. They respond to their cubs' purring and wailing noises with reassuring rumbles, and gently nudge them with their muzzles to comfort them.
After the initial first shift, the mother swaps out with the father to take his position patrolling and hunting, and the father settles down with the cubs, keeping a close and watchful eye over them.
Parents encourage curiosity and playful behaviors in their young. They participate and play along with mock ambushing, even feigning surprise when their cubs successfully pounce on them from behind.
Both parents will intervene during spats between their cubs when battles look to be going too far. With young often struggling to realise when they need to back down, it is up to parents to instill restraint in their offspring, and adults step between warring cubs that go below half health. Cubs are expected to establish their own hierarchy, and only extreme aggression that may result in the death of a cub is reprimanded.
Cubs that show weakness or poor development are given minimal attention, with parents focusing mostly on the loudest and strongest of their offspring. Especially sickly young - or offspring that display albino skins - are taken to the borders of a territory and expelled entirely, rejected by their parents.
As cubs grow, parents become less hands on, instead allowing their offspring to trail behind them as they perform tasks to maintain their vast territories. Adolescents are taught how to patrol, stalk prey, and finally how to land killing blows, usually on whatever critters that can be found.
Towards the end of adolescence, cubs start pushing their luck with their parents, causing them to rapidly lose patience.
✦ Offspring Maturity
As soon as cubs hit Sub-Adult, both parents - but led by the mother - begin aggressively driving their young out of their territory. The familial bond is broken as soon as they leave, and offspring are regarded as intruders if they attempt to enter the territory again.
✦ Adoption
Tyrannosaurus do not adopt, and will cannibalize unrelated offspring of Adolescent and under.
 
Bild
As Tyrannosaurus ages, subtle but significant changes begin to emerge in their bodies and behavior. While not all individuals reach old age - a Tyrannosaurus' life is often short and brutal - those that do carry the marks of a hard life, bearing scarred hides, worn down teeth, and slower movement.
Reaction times and stamina overall decline, forcing Tyrannosaurus to target weaker or slower prey. While an Anodontosaurus may have been an exciting hunt to a much younger adult, these extremely tough herbivores could cause immeasurable pain and cracked teeth to elders.
Pairs remain together even in their elder stage, refusing to abandon their lifelong mate.
✦ Death
When one of a pair dies, the other is usually quick to follow. If both are elder, the remaining partner does not take another mate, but younger individuals may do so after a brief grieving period.
Bild
Tyrannosaurus form lifelong, monogamous pairs with the opposite sex only.
Males must court females with food offerings or are rejected.
Tyrannosaurus will cannibalize unrelated young of Adolescent and under.
Tyrannosaurus only respect forfeits from other Tyrannosaurus if they are visibly making an attempt to flee the POI, and are repeatedly heart :friendly_call: calling or fear :danger_call: calling.
If the losing Tyrannosaurus stops, eats, drinks, quests, or etc on the way out of the territory, the winning Rex may kill them.
If Tyrannosaurus fails an ambush against carnivores, and the carnivores begin to hunt the Tyrannosaurus, they may defend themselves, but may not continue their own hunt.
Should these carnivores forfeit the hunt, Tyrannosaurus will respect the forfeit call, ending the engagement.
Male and Female Tyrannosaurus that are actively courting may not engage the same prey within 15 minutes of the other, regardless of whether the engagement (hunt or challenge) was forfeited or won, unless the other party is an Apex Terrestrial Carnivore.
 
Bild
Tyrannosaurus must challenge out all other Apex terrestrial carnivores from the POI. Additionally, they do not receive a species timer for challenges on Apex terrestrial carnivores after a challenge. 6.2
Tyrannosaurus should not immediately try to hunt the species they have just challenged from the POI, unless the other is on deathscars. 6.5
Tyrannosaurus cannot  co-exist in a POI with other Apex terrestrial carnivores. They must either challenge for the right to remain in the POI, or move to a different one.
Tyrannosaurus may not interrupt the hunts of other Tyrannosaurus, Giganotosaurus, and Tyrannotitan, or any other carnivore to issue a territory challenge. If unwilling to wait for the hunt to conclude, they may seek out new territory.
Tyrannosaurus do not hunt Giganotosaurus or Tyrannotitan unless at desperate hunger (35%), or if the rival is Albino, deathscarred or aged Adolescent and below. They may always eat from their corpses.
Tyrannosaurus do not hunt Tyrannosaurus, unless the rival is Albino or aged Adolescent and below.  If they kill them following a challenge, they can eat from their corpse.
Tyrannosaurus ignore body downs in order to challenge Large+ tier carnivores from its territory. If the aggressor is successful in the contest, then they claim the body down as well as the territory. This challenge is a territory challenge, not a body contest. 6.7.4
Tyrannosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 21:08
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 03:36
Bild
Bild
✦ Riparia Differences
In Riparia, some POIs have been split to accommodate territory size. Tyrannosaurus will push any rivals to edge of their territories, not outside of the entire POI (unless the territory border is the edge of the POI).
Profile in Under 60 Seconds - Video Series
https://youtu.be/fYYReXyfXBc
YouTube
Dynasty Realism
Dynasty Realism: Profiles In Under 60 Seconds - Tyrannosaurus Rex
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Tyrannosaurus are Apex Cathemeral Terrestrial Carnivores.
Tyrannosaurus can group up to 2 sub/adults, 4 offspring. Tyrannosaurus do not adopt.
Tyrannosaurus are aggressive.
Tyrannosaurus can have up to 2 in an engagement or hunt.
Tyrannosaurus  may hunt any tier. Tyrannosaurus may not scavenge.
Tyrannosaurus are highly aggressive, territorial carnivores that do not tolerate any Large+ carnivores in their territories.
Tyrannosaurus are solitary unless in a pair, which they remain with for life.
Offspring are raised cooperatively by both parents, and are fiercely defended.
Tyrannosaurus are strict ambush predators, and lay in wait for long periods for the perfect opportunity to strike.
Tyrannosaurus enjoy and tolerate the company of Compsognathus, and share their kills with them.
 
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes):  15-60-75-90 = 240 total
Combat Weight: 6000
Adjusted Stats:
⁨
- Combat weight increased to 6000 from 5500
- Knockback traction multiplier increased to 3 from 1
- Max health increased to 1000 from 800
- Stamina fast swim cost multiplier greatly reduced
- Stamina swim cost per second greatly reduced
- Turn in place increased
- Herring cooldown increased to 600
- Herring duration increased to 12 seconds
- Herring speed bonus increased to 1.4 from 1.2
- Kick cooldown removed
- Stamina recovery greatly nerfed unless sleeping or sitting
- increased bite damage  (60 > 70)
- removed clamp damage 
- removed clamp bone break 
- removed the initial stamina cost for clamp 
- reduced the stamina drain from carrying a clamped victim by 25% 
- halved rex's stamina drain from bucking
- doubled the crushing bite's bone break dealt
- increased charged bite raw damage (130 > 150)
- charged bite now has a small chance to deal some bonebreak
- headbutt cooldown lowered to 5s
- headbutt debuff duration increased to 30s from 15s
- added 25% bigger stamina pool
⁩ 
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?