Spinosaurus
    "Spino", "Spoon"
Spinosaurus is a formidable semi-aquatic apex predator. Adorned with sharp claws, a thick paddle-like tail and tall sail along its back, this iconic predator is well known for dominating riverways. Selfish and territorial by nature, Spinosaurus in water see all invaders as competition over their resources and readily push out other species from their claimed water source.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Kittyful & Beadil
Photo: Atreyu
Profile inspired by Saltwater Crocodiles and Grizzly Bears.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.08.2025 14:17
Overview
Bild
Apex Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Carnivore
Spinosaurus form temporary pairbonds that become strong pairbonds over time.
Spinosaurus are territorial and claim medium water sources in claimable territory areas. (See profile map for specific claimable territory water sources)
Territory borders end 10 body lengths from the water's edge.
Spinosaurus have an aggressive nature within claimable territory. Otherwise, they are tolerant.
Suchomimus, Concavenator and Halszkaraptor are tolerated within their territory in some situations.
Spinosaurus are not scavengers, but do share kills claimed by Concavenator and Suchomimus.
Spinosaurus tolerate mutated individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Spinosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic, DR Piebald Mutation
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
2 Sub/Adults as a bonded pair.
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees
This group is known as a pairbond.

Outside of a pairbond, Spinosaurus are solitary. However, they may still adopt if they wish to.

Engagement Limits (Defense & Hunts)
Hunts: 1 Sub/Adult Spinosaurus
Spinosaurus may hunt up to and including Apex tier.
Spinosaurus may only hunt from their preferred territory. See profile map.  They may hunt Leedsichthys, Tylosaurus, and fish and eat critters anywhere.
Adolescent Spinosaurus do not assist with their parents’ hunts.
Solo Adolescent Spinosaurus do not hunt other species.

Defense and territory challenge: Up to 2 Sub/Adult Spinosaurus
Protecting young and adoptees, their partner when attacked or defending/challenging for territory.
Crocodilian rivalry: up to 2 Spinosaurs in a pairbond may work together to kill Deinosuchus and Sarcosuchus if spotted within their territory.
Avoidance: Sub/Adult Argentinosaurus & Apatosaurus are never hunted or challenged out of Spinosaurus territory.

Cross-species Adoption: Spinosaurus can adopt Suchomimus of any age.
A pair or solitary Spinosaurus will defend their adoptees when they are targeted. This includes intentionally preventing their adoptive offspring from engaging in hunts or challenges.

Preferred Prey
Hunting in any POI: Fish, ai corpses or critters, Leedsichthys, and Tylosaurus - though this is risky, and offspring are preferred.
Hunting in Claimed Territory Only: Deinosuchus and Sarcosuchus are hunted first. Otherwise, up to Apex tier prey.
Spinosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 5 🥚﻿ per 6 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 6 hours.
Spinosaurus nest anywhere in their claimed territory.
Spinosaurus may form same-sex pairs, but do not nest with a surrogate. They may adopt and raise adopted offspring together.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 04.08.2025 14:36
Physical Dimorphism
Spinosaurus has color dimorphism.
This profile has high and low T individuals. High T females might have brighter colors, while low T males can be duller or not as vibrant as other males.
♀️ Female Spinosaurus are uniform in color.
♂️ Male Spinosaurus have a bright flash of color on their sails that contrasts with the rest of their bodies.
High T and Low T individuals face difficulties securing a lifelong partner. Often, they are rejected as pairbonds due to infertility if in a same-sex pair by accident.
Physical dimorphism for Spinosaurus is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the dimorphism will be assumed to be the gender they look like.

Dimorphism Examples
 
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Immediately after hatching from their eggs, young Spinosaurus are greeted by their mother, who lures them into the water with gentle calls.
The initial waddle into the shallows puts these younglings at risk, so - standing protectively over them - their mother shifts her body to hide them from predator view during their short path into the water.
Baby Spinosaurus seek comfort by hiding under their mother's tail or pressing closely against her side, frequently calling out to ensure she's still nearby. From as early as inside the egg, babies fine tune into their mother's sounds and scent, and feel reassured by her presence. Their attachment to her is intense and they display visible distress if separated, even for a brief moment.
Hatchlings show little interest in their siblings, only acknowledging them with a quick sniff, or cuddling together during rest periods. They remain largely indifferent to each other in the early stages of their life. 
While they may not be particularly aggressive with their siblings, they tend to push ahead to stay close to their mother.
Once swimming, young remain very close to their mother, who leads them from the nesting grounds with strong strokes of her tail.
Their father remains aloof in the early stages, but swims nearby, occasionally calling to his mate and patrolling the water's edge. He periodically swims close to inspect his brood, but otherwise keeps a distance while his young are still hatchling.
Juveniles grow quickly and instinctively hunt small fish, crabs and scraps of meat. They survive by staying close to their siblings and mother, who brings them food in her jaws.
Young Spinosaurus frequently collect sea shells, lake sponge and lakeweed to chew on. The crunch of the shells against their jaws helps tooth grinding tendencies, and the softness of lake sponge and lakeweed soothes aching gums as new teeth grow through.
Young chirp constantly, a sound sometimes mimicked by adults. When distressed, they wail in a distinctive fear call :fear_call:. This sparks an immediate reaction in their parents who rush to their aid, ready to defend their young from the perceived threat.
As Spinosaurus mature into adolescence, they gradually begin to explore independently and stray further from their mother's side. At this stage, some offspring show a greater interest in their father, spending time swimming behind him, imitating his movements and vocalizations.
Once reaching Sub-Adult and fully shedding from their mottled baby scales, both parents push them out of the territory. Freshly matured Spinosaurus are often eager to disperse of their own accord at this stage, but the sudden rejection from their parents sometimes provokes distress in sensitive individuals.
Despite this, they disperse willingly and instinctively migrate to Triad Falls. This ancestral neutral ground harbors the perfect location for subadults to grow into full maturity and secure their first pairbond.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned Spinosaurus are shy and fearful, instinctively wandering near water in search of food.
If lucky enough to find an adult Spinosaurus, they meekly call their new parent and swim or sit by their tail.
If an unwilling adult is approached, the youngling will be promptly shoved away and chased from the water - a clear sign the orphan is unwanted.
Even when rejected, the orphan will stay in the area, too nervous to explore further without a caregiver.
 
Bild
Spinosaurus spend most of their lives either in water or just beside it, and are well adapted to different water types. Within a lifetime, Spinosaurus will exist both in fresh water and salt water. 
Over time, some Spinosaurus develop a particular preference - with some individuals ultimately preferring a lazy lifestyle touring saltwater areas, while most possessively claim territory in freshwater lakes and rivers.
With their narrow jaws and conical teeth, they are expert fishers, capable of grabbing slippery fish and taking down semi-aquatic prey.
All Spinosaurus bask frequently, aiming to direct their large sails directly in line of the sun's rays. The blood vessels on the sail help control their body temperature, either absorbing or releasing heat as needed.
However, Spinosaurus must be careful not to stay out of water for too long. Their skin is prone to drying out and cracking, and require frequent dips to keep themselves hydrated.
Spinosaurus claim a medium sized stretch of water within key hotspot areas, which they patrol and viciously defend from others - including other Spinosaurus. They tolerate other species in the area, but become highly aggressive when their territory is approached. They tolerate all species on land, but often follow along from their water source, tracking along the waterline to make sure the individual doesn't dare to touch it.
More information can be found in Cross-Species Interaction.
Spinosaurus can be fickle over their water source, and move on to new territories when resources are low.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Spinosaurus enter a state of deep sleep for extended periods called "torpor," where their heart rate, breathing, and metabolism slow significantly. This allows them to survive extended periods without eating or drinking. For the most extended of naps, Spinosaurus often sleep beneath the water; but are aware enough to rise to the surface at times to catch their breath.
Spinosaurus will construct nests at their favorite nesting places, and will return to these places for these extended naps.
Spinosaurus will also permit Suchomimus to sleep near them.
Spinosaurus will rouse when detecting prey or threats to their territory.
 
Bild
✦ Triad Falls Migration
Instinctively, Spinosaurus seeking a new partner will travel to Triad Falls. This area serves as a neutral gathering place, where Spinosaurus gather in large numbers to bask, court and lazily relax.
Territorial behavior is suppressed within Triad Falls and the area is not considered suitable territory to claim. All Spinosaurus loosely tolerate one another here - only protecting their personal space if it is invaded.
Spinosaurus residing in this area ignore terrestrial species drinking - but do not tolerate Tylosaurus or semi-aquatics sharing the same pond. Individuals will take turns pushing out Tylosaurus or semi-aquatics attempting to enter the water, or bask on the beaches.
This location is a safe haven for Sub-Adults who - after being pushed from their parents' territories - migrate here to mature into adults and hopefully secure their first pairbond.
✦ Pairbonds
Spinosaurus yearn for long-term, monogamous bonds. If separated from their partner, an individual may seek out another mate to avoid remaining solitary.
Although they generally stay with one partner for most of their lives, they can still nest with another if circumstances prevent them from reuniting with their original mate.
Spinosaurus do not group socially outside of their pairbonds - as their strong monogamous inclination prevents them from forming bonds with related family members or strangers. When ready, an individual will court another with the intention to lay eggs together as a test of compatibility.
Sometimes the pairing does not yield eggs - and the acceptance of this loss depends on each individual. Some are indifferent to the eggs not hatching, while others see this loss as genetic incompatibility and end the pairing in favor of seeking a more fertile partner.
Bonds form over time, with both individuals forming trust through time spent side-by-side; basking, swimming, patrolling territory and defending each other from rivals and predation.
Pairbonds are broken for various reasons; infertility, fearful reactions to threats in their shared territory, unwillingness to care for young and adoptees, poor hunting skills, or simply undesirable company. 
When pairbonds begin to fade, both individuals distance themselves from each other and when approached - react defensively.
Repeated aggressive reactions to each other sparks resentment and incompatibility. When the pairbond ends, an individual might opt to move on - either back to Triad Falls to find a better partner, or stake a claim to their own territory. Sometimes, a partner may attempt to push out their pairbond, evicting them from the water and forcing the separation.
✦ Solitary Behavior
Spinosaurus outside of pairbonds are inherently solitary and aloof towards their own kind, preferring to claim their own territory where they can hunt and fish without competition.
However, even solitary Spinosaurus might feel the pull of parenthood and readily adopt Suchomimus or orphaned Spinosaurus young.
Sometimes, Spinosaurus simply wishes to exist without consistent competition and will remain in Triad Falls. Elder individuals, separated from their pairbonds, often relocate here for long periods of time.
 
Bild
Spinosaurus by nature are tolerant to each other when no threat to territory exists. Within Triad Falls and outside prime territory water locations, there is no competition and as such, individuals accept the proximity of other Spinosaurus.
However, when in their own chosen territories - a body of water in specific territory areas - others outside of a pairbond are considered threats, both to water quality and food opportunities. They are promptly pushed out or vivaciously fought against.
✦ Evicting rival Spinosaurus from the territory
Spinosaurus bonds are strong, but not unbreakable. When broken, an individual is either abandoned by their pairbond, or challenged out of the territory with force.
Challenges for their water territory begins with violent displays of aggression and splashing within the water. Loud, thundering roars, claw swipes and aggressive displays warn the rival that the individual is ready for conflict. 
If deterring a rival, a bonded pair works together to display before approaching, presenting a united, overwhelming front against the threat to their territory.
If the rival refuses to retreat, the encounter escalates into a deadly battle either on land or in water, continuing until death - or the other fleeing the territory. 
Spinosaurus territory owners may continue attacking the fleeing rival, but must stop once they leave the territory borders.
Pacing at the edge of their territory, the winner watches closely, making certain that their rival is forced (10 body lengths) from the water's edge.
After a challenge, the losing individual or pair is forced to move on.
✦ Pairbond, Offspring and Adoptee defence
Spinosaurs pairs and individuals are fiercely protective over their offspring and adoptees. 
When their young is threatened - either approached by a predator or attacked outright - the parent(s) rush to their aid, issuing aggressive displays to distract the attacker and give their young time to flee by their side. 
For fully grown Suchomimus, this protection proves a nuisance - as Spinosaurus will step in to prevent the Suchomimus partaking in hunts or challenges. A problem which forces the Suchomimus to hunt further in land, away from the prying eyes of the Spinosaurus "parent".
When their same-species offspring reach Sub-Adult, parents (or adoptive parent/parents) push their young out of the territory with loud calls (:danger_call:) and aggressive displays (:threaten_call: ). Sometimes, offspring are seemingly oblivious, requiring a few attempts to successfully get the point across.
Adoptive young of a different species sometimes remain with Spinosaurus for longer. Lacking a large sail, Suchomimus young are considered somewhat stunted, and can remain with the Spinosaurus if they are tolerated. 
Tolerance to these sly Suchomimus vary between Spinosaurus individuals. Some grow tired of the constant demands of their young and eventually push them out, while others blindly feed and protect them for years.
 
Bild
✦ Protecting their water territory
Spinosaurus are selfishly aggressive to almost everything that approaches their water when within claimable territory areas. 
When not hunting, and another creature approaches (within 10 body lengths of the waters edge), Spinosaurus becomes alert and regards the intruder with deep suspicion.
Shadowing them along the waterline, Spinosaurus vigilantly watches and makes sure to display their sail fully.
If the rival is undeterred by this and continues approaching, Spinosaurus will start roaring aggressively :threaten_call:, issuing a firm warning of their presence.
If the intruder leaves the territory borders and moves on, it is ignored. However, if the intruder continues to approach (after issuing territory challenge calls and 10 seconds after the last aggressive call is made), Spinosaurus responds immediately by lunging from the water to drive it away.
Should the Spinosaurus lose the engagement, it has no choice but to tolerate the victor's presence for 15 minutes before attempting to drive the creature out again.
During a challenge with a territorial terrestrial, if Spinosaurus retreats into the water and enters the swimming animation, this is an automatic forfeit of the land surrounding it's water territory and must now abide by resource challenge rules.
Should the intruder flee or retreat from the Spinosaurus' territory (10 body lengths from the waters edge), Spinosaurus calms and does not pursue, satisfied that the threat has been repelled.
✦ Suchomimus tolerance & adoption
Suchomimus are sometimes adopted by Spinosaurus, due to their similar resemblance to Spinosaurus young. Lacking a large sail, Suchomimus are regarded as stunted young. Some individuals readily accept Suchomimus nearby, while others push them out.
Adoption chances for Suchomimus vary, and both pairbonded and solitary Spinosaurus have been noted to adopt. The likelihood of acceptance depends on the Spinosaurus' tolerance of young in general.
Once adopted, Spinosaurus dote on their new charges, treating the Suchomimus as true offspring and bringing them food. They defend them fiercely from any threats - even when the Suchomimus reaches maturity.
Even Sub-Adult or Adult Suchomimus are mistaken for stunted young, with Spinosaurus continuing to nurture them without realizing their true maturity.
This parental bond either continues indefinitely, or until the parent(s) grow tired of their "offspring's" continuous demands, and drives them out of their territory.
✦ Invasive species: Deinosuchus and Sarcosuchus
Spinosaurus within claimed territory readily kill crocodilian species to remove direct competition with prized resource locations. If in a pairbond, both Spinosaurus will work together to kill Deinosuchus and Sarcosuchus that enter prime territory locations. 
Even if these invasive species are actively engaged with something else, Spinosaurus will intervene and take advantage of their rivals' distraction. When opting to drive out these rivals, Spinosaurus finishes ongoing engagements and recovers strength before confrontation.
While they treat these species with utmost disdain, a Spinosaurus will not sacrifice themselves if a successful outcome seems unlikely.
If they opt not to engage with these species, Spinosaurus must leave the water source, returning only when willing to drive them out.
Outside of claimable territory, Spinosaurus watches these species with disdain. With no reason to challenge rivals from undesirable water, Spinosaurus either remain to watch the crocodilians pass, or leave the area themselves. Choosing to ignore rather than risk wounding themselves unnecessarily.
 
✦ Tylosaurus
Spinosaurus consider Tylosaurus to be extra large fish, and do not show signs of territoriality towards them, unless nesting or their personal space is invaded.
Spinosaurus may attempt to hunt Tylosaurus in any POI, but prefer to hunt their offspring due to their more manageable size.
✦ Leedsichthys
As Leedsichthys are in fact large fish, Spinosaurus do not issue territory challenges towards them, and instead allow them within their territories.
Spinosaurus enjoy hunting Leedsichthys offspring, and may even at times attempt adult Leedsichthys. They may attempt to hunt Leedsichthys in any POI.
✦ Concavenator tolerance
Concavenator are sometimes tolerated within Spinosaurus territory, depending on individual preference. However, should they become a nuisance, they are promptly chased out.
✦ Halszkaraptor tolerance
Initially treated similarly to any other species at first, Halszkaraptor are quickly recognized by Spinosaurus as being too swift and elusive to reliably catch.
After several repeated attempts to expel them - and the resulting failure - Spinosaurus begrudgingly ends up tolerating them.
However, if the opportunity presents itself, especially through an ambush or if the tiny dromaeosaurid decides to stray too close, Spinosaurus will not hesitate to attempt a hunt.
 
Bild
Spinosaurus primarily feeds on fish, supplementing its diet by taking advantage of abundant resources in rivers and large lakes.
Spinosaurus uniquely hunt only in key hotspot areas. These areas are referred to as territory areas. When hunting, Spinosaurus become alarmingly passive and silent in water. A Spinosaurus not immediately chasing out or aggressing any other species encroaching upon its water source is an extremely dangerous one. Rather than aggressing, they silently slip towards their prey.
All hunts must start from within Spinosaurus' claimable territory. This is within the water, and 10 body lengths from the waters edge. All hunts may continue beyond their territory.
Spinosaurus hunt alone. If their prey fights back, their companion does not step in to defend them. Spinosaurus prefer to retreat into water (or out of it) as needed if hunting success seems low.
Outside of territory areas, Spinosaurus feast on fish and occasionally chase small critters or scavenge from long forgotten corpses. They do not bother challenging others for territory or corpses outside of claimable territory, as these undesirable areas are considered low in resources and not worth the effort.
Spinosaurus are not cannibalistic and never hunt their own kind. Additionally, Suchomimus receives the same treatment due to being considered stunted young.  However, Spinosaurus is not wasteful, and may still eat from a Spinosaurus or Suchomimus corpse.
Concavenator is another low priority target when Spinosaurus are tolerating them in their water source.
 
Bild
✦ Seeking a new partner
Within Triad Falls or Wollemi Forest, Spinosaurus look to find another to form a bond with. Some Spinosaurus are highly selective when choosing a mate, and take their time assessing potential partners.
When they spot a partner with desirable traits, they approach cautiously. 
Walking towards the other, they shake their sails, and angle their head to the side.
Direct, head-on approaches are avoided, as they are received as aggressive gestures, and may provoke defensive displays or conflict.
Once they reach their intended partner - and are not aggressed away - both individuals settle beside one another with soft calls. They exchange neck shakes and vocalizations, utilizing this time to inspect the other more closely, as well as get a feeling of their overall temperaments to see if this partner is a good match.
If the pairing seems incompatible upon closer inspection, one or both of the Spinosaurus' will simply rise up and wander away - a clear sign that a grouping is unlikely here.
Should both individuals find mutual comfort in one another's presence, the pair will leave Triad Falls together, swimming off to find territory.
✦ Established Strong Bonded Pairs
Strong bonded pairbonds: These animals often choose to nest with one established partner frequently. They are closely bonded, but may choose to form pair bonds with others if their mate is not around or online.
When Spinosaurus already have an established pair, nesting is a mutual decision and the pair do not migrate to Triad Falls or Wollemi Forest, instead, they court within their claimed territory.
Courtship between a strongly bonded pair is acted within the water, with both individuals circling each other and calling softly in a personalized dance. This underwater display is unique to each pair and some are more elaborate the longer they have been paired together.
In the unfortunate situation where a strongly bonded partner is caught with another, the previous mate can choose to ignore the pairing and wait for their partner to return to them, or promptly sever the pairbond. When crossing paths in the future, the partner that was caught "cheating" is promptly chased away and treated the same as an unknown Spinosaurus.
✦ Pairbonds
Pairbonds take time to form. If unbroken due to incompatibility, they often last a long time - if not for life.
Some Spinosaurus may find themselves without their pairbond and return to Triad Falls or Wollemi Forest, taking interest in another partner to fill the void.
Spinosaurus communicate primarily through body language - ranging from gruff headshakes to display affection :shake_emote: , to shrill, aggressive screeches :broadcast_emote2:  to signal displeasure.
Bonded individuals spend considerable time side-by-side with one another, and eat, patrol territory and protect each other from threats.
Pairbonds, while sometimes lifelong, can be broken. Infertile clutches, death of offspring, failure to defend the territory, a mismatch in temperaments and continued resentment leads to strain, and ultimately a pairbond disintegrating.
✦ Nesting
Nesting is only done from within claimable territory areas. Pairs will spend great time and effort to secure the best locations for their future young.
Females construct the nest, while the male watches over protectively. Once built, they both settle around the eggs - or practice doing so, if no eggs are laid - with one leaving to patrol the area while the other keeps the eggs - absent or otherwise - warm.
 
✦ Parenthood
As eggs hatch, the mother lures them into the water, while the father keeps watch over his mate and brood.
Parental care is primarily the responsibility of the mother - who must wrangle very attached and clingy young.
The supportive father protects his pairbond and young, casting a watchful eye over his family and fiercely defending them from threats. He steps in to care for his young when the mother needs to break away, and frequently brings them pieces of food in her absence.
Both parents are exceptionally affectionate and loving towards their offspring, who are doted on and nuzzled at regular intervals.
At adolescence, offspring become more independent from their mother, and fathers sometimes find their young trailing behind them, keen to mimic his behaviors.
✦ Offspring Maturity
As they mature at Sub-Adult, both parents push them out of the territory. While most young are keen to disperse on their own, some require more force to leave the area, which parents provide with air swipes and snaps: visually aggressive and frightening, but ultimately harmless. This is always enough pressure to chase off newly mature offspring.
✦ Adoption
Some Spinosaurus are doting parents, while others are not. This individual preference impacts whether adoption is more or less likely to occur. Be it in a pair, or solitary - a Spinosaurus might accept an orphan Spinosaurus or Suchomimus as young, but equally may choose to aggress them away.
If choosing to adopt an orphan Spinosaurus or Suchomimus, usually the most parental individual quickly approaches the adoptee, calling softly :friendly_call: and aiming to lure it closer to them. With both parents inspecting their new child, it is led into the water and gently prevented from straying too far.
If rejecting Suchomimus or young Spinosaurus, the would-be parent roars with displeasure :broadcast_call: . They snap at the air with their jaws, and chase the orphan out their territory.
Suchomimus
All Spinosaurus seem to recognize these sailless species as vulnerable Spinosaurus young, and adoption of them is common in Spinosaurus that have strong parental drive.
These "orphans" get food provided to them, and Spinosaurus will defend them from threats, which serves as a very useful lifeline for Suchomimus - one which many of them learn, over time, to use to their advantage.
If the Spinosaurus has same-species young or orphans, it's not uncommon for Suchomimus to cull these rivals when the adults are not around.
Spinosaurus parenting style does not permit offspring (and adoptees) from hunting prey that is not fish or critters, they do not tolerate their offspring joining engagements until they are considered mature enough to survive on their own (subadult). If spotting their adopted Suchomomis in a hunt or being attacked, Spinosaurus pairs immediately step between the fight and aggressive their adoptee away. Forcing them to abandon the fight and retreat. In these situations, Spinosaurus parents do not hunt the species engaged with their offspring and instead return to their territory. If the species is within the territory borders, Spinosaurus parents first ensure their offspring are safe before aggressing and pushing out the rival creatures.
Suchomimus are still at risk of being pushed out, though some are cared for indefinitely. It is not uncommon for Spinosaurus to grow tired of constantly caring for these sly "offspring" and opt to reject them. They employ fierce aggressive displays to push their once-accepted offspring out of the territory, ruining the Suchomimus' chances of an easier life.
Spinosaurus who already have adopted sub/adult Suchomimus may still adopt the young of these species. Adult Suchomimus who are seen continually displaying aggression towards the younger adoptees will be driven off by Spinosaurus.
 
Bild
As Spinosaurus age, their interest in territoriality wanes, and many individuals end up travelling to Triad Falls more frequently, preferring a slower pace of life.
Much more time is spent lazing around and showing affection to their pairbond  - should they have one.
In male and female pairs, elder Spinosaurus frequently face issues of infertility, which leads to a far lower likelihood of eggs hatching successfully. Single egg clutches are common with advanced age.
 
Bild
Spinosaurus territory is considered 10 body lengths from the water's edge in claimable territory areas. They have unique territory sizes, specific to this profile. Each claimable territory on their map is labeled as separate water spots with darker or lighter green colors. 
Some territory areas will overlap, this is unavoidable and up to both players if they wish to continue engaging each other or move out of reach while they heal.
Both pairs and solitary Spinosaurus claim and defend territory.
During engagements: Spinosaurus can use any water to flee into and continue attacking from. However, this does not include healing water.
If fleeing into water during a territory challenge with a territorial terrestrial, Spinosaurus automatically forfeits the land and must now abide by resource challenge rules for the water territory.
Hunting other players can ONLY be done from territory areas. This is the water as highlighted on their map, and 10 body lengths from the waters edge. Outside of these areas, Spinosaurus CANNOT hunt other players. They must eat fish or critters and corpses. They may however defend themselves when attacked. Just not initiate hunts.
Adoption is optional and can be revoked at any time.
Spinosaurus do not bring their offspring and adoptees into their courtship grounds at Triad Falls when seeking a new partner.
 
Bild
Vocalization when Hunting Profile Rule: To avoid misunderstanding. If choosing to hunt, Spinosaurus cannot broadcast or aggressive call before or during the hunt.
Territory challenges (When chasing things from their water): Spinosaurus must drive out everything from their water source when in claimable territory areas.
To begin this defense, Spinosaurus FIRST display their sail and issue x3 aggressive calls :threaten_call: 
If ignored for 10 seconds, the offender begins (or continues) drinking from the water source, or is challenged back, Spinosaurus will engage - only stopping pursuit once the target leaves 10 body lengths from the waters edge.
If losing its challenge against species that do not claim the water source as territory, Spinosaurus must permit that group to drink before pushing them out again.
Intervening in Suchomimus engagements: Spinosaurus cannot hunt the players that their adopted Suchomimus were engaged with. If the fight is within the Spinosaurus territory, it can push the rivals out.
Sub/Adult Spinosaurus may not group with related family members. Adult groupings for Spinosaurus are pairbonds - not loose groupings.
Spinosaurus may hunt other players if 75% or below hunger in the courtship grounds.

RULE EXEMPTIONS
Spinosaurus does not receive a species timer after a territory or resource challenge if Spinosaurus wins. However, if they lose a resource challenge with a terrestrial, they must move out of line of sight of the resource. 6.2
Spinosaurus is not exempt from rule 6.9. When challenged by a territorial terrestrial species on land, Spinosaurus may retreat into the water - but may not enter swimming animation. If  swimming during a challenge while in a territory challenge with a terrestrial species for the land, Spinosaurus forfeits the challenge and must therefore tolerate the challenger drinking from its water source and existing within 10 body-lengths of the water.
Spinosaurus has exceptions to 4.2 and may not hunt in unpreferred POI unless the target is a Tylosaurus.
Spinosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
Spinosaurus ignore the body downs of Deinosuchus and Sarcosuchus in order to challenge these species from its territory. If the Spinosaurus is successful in the contest, then they claim the body down as well as the territory, and will pursue the crocodilian until it flees from the claimed territory. This challenge is a territory challenge, not a body contest. 6.7.4
Spinosaurus does not respect the forfeit calls of rival Spinosaurus during a territory challenge. [6.5]
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 21:01
Preferred POIs
 
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 01:37
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 13.06.2026 21:28
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Spinosaurus are Apex Cathemeral Semi-Aquatic Carnivores.
Spinosaurus are mainly solitary, but can group with a partner. Spinosaurus do adopt, depending on individual personalities.
Spinosaurus uniquely adopt Suchomimus of any age.
Spinosaurus have an aggressive nature when within claimable territory, and are tolerant everywhere else.
Spinosaurus may defend their partner, offspring, territory as 2 sub/adults in a bonded pair. Spinosaurus hunt alone as 1 sub/adult. Their partner does not assist in hunts.
Spinosaurus may hunt up to Apex tier.
Spinosaurus have a migration to Triad Falls. They tolerate other Spinosaurus there neutrally, and do not claim the water source there as territory.
Spinosaurus can be territorial in specific territory areas. These are listed on their map.
Spinosaurus are especially aggressive towards Deinosuchus and Sarcosuchus, and opt to kill or expel them from their territory as quickly as possible.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-60-75-85 = 240 total
Combat Weight: 6000
Adjusted Stats:
- Combat weight increased to 6000 from 5500
- Max health increased to 1100 from 900
Quick Links
Top
Growing up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?