Maip
Maip is a genus of large megaraptorid hailing from Late Cretaceous Argentina, described from an incomplete and disarticulated skeleton. Among other megaraptorians, Maip is considered the largest on record. Their behavior resembles that of both hyenas and corvids; intelligent and very sociable animals, Maip take on the role of endurance hunter, bleeding down their prey with sharpened claws and swift movement.

⁨
Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Drayykonfruit
Photo: SuprizeSoup
Profile inspired by hyenas, and members of the corvid family (crows, magpies).
⁩

Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 13.08.2025 19:00
Overview
Bild
Large Nocturnal Terrestrial Carnivore
Maip form lifelong pairbonds.
Maip are nomadic.
Maip have an aggressive nature.
Maip are not scavengers.
Maip cannibalize albino individuals, and tolerate melanistic individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Maip include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
3 Sub/Adults, consisting of a mated pair and a favored adult offspring.
Unlimited Offspring
Maip does not adopt, and will cannibalize unattended pups. However, an orphaned Maip pup may attempt to sneak into nests. If discovered, Maip parents may cannibalize stowaway pups.
This group is known as a skulk.

Up to 3 Sub/Adults, consisting of bonded siblings.
No Offspring or Adoptees.
This group is known as a cackle.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
3 Maip may enter an engagement or hunt.
Maip flee from Adult Tyrannotitan.
1 Maip may hunt up to Large tier.
2-3 Maip may hunt up to solo Apex tier, excluding Adult Tyrannotitan.
Adolescents may participate in a hunt, but only a maximum of 2 may assist, and must individually forfeit at half health. Adolescents may only assist with hunts against other species up to solo Large tier.

Preferred Prey/Diet
Maip target vulnerable dinosaurs as much as possible. Hatchlings and juveniles, sickly, sleeping or elderly prey are the first prey options they target.
While Maip actively avoids adult Tyrannotitan, they will hunt and even target lone Tyrannotitan offspring of Adolescent and below.
Possessing very strong stomachs and even stronger immune systems, Maip can consume rotting carrion without issue. They can be seen frequently gnawing bones for the nutritious marrow inside.
Maip tolerate scavengers around their kill if they still have one during the day. At night, they defend their kills from scavengers.
Maip will cannibalize Albinos of their species.
Maip may feed from the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 1 hour.
Maip nest in caves and caverns large enough to fit themselves, their mate and their offspring. 
However, if unable to nest in an enclosed space, they choose heavily secluded areas shrouded in foliage and leaves, hidden from the sunlight.
Maip may form same-sex pairs, but do not nest or adopt.

Physical Dimorphism
Maip have no physical dimorphism, but do have behavioral dimorphism.
This profile does not have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Female Maip are brash and brutish, and greet others of their species with a raised posture, using loud calls to establish their power and dominance. [:question_emote:]
♂️ Male Maip are much more submissive, and crouch down with gentle coos and giggles to greet others of their species in the hopes of appeasement. They may even roll over, showing their soft and vulnerable bellies - especially in the presence of females. [:shake_emote:]
Behavioral dimorphism is mandatory for Maip. Players may not behave as the opposite sex with greetings.
 
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Once hatched within the confines of the nest cave, Maip offspring, known as pups, are first greeted with a celebration consisting of a cacophony of hoots, laughs and cackles as they emerge.
The health of the pup is gauged closely by their parents to see if they add their own voices to the celebration. If a Maip pup is hatched and silent, they are usually considered sickly, and can be cannibalized by their parents to preserve the wellbeing of the other pups.
However, if the silent Maip pup is the only pup in the clutch, it will not be cannibalized. Instead, this solitary pup has extra care put in to ensure its survival. If the efforts seem in vain, or no improvement is observed, the pup may then be cannibalized.
Maip pups are born with poor eyesight and very soft, vulnerable scales. While their eyesight begins to develop better halfway through the hatchling stage, their scales do not properly harden until close to the adolescent stage.
Once pups have enough strength, they are considered one of the most rambunctious species' young. They are noisy and boisterous as they play, roughhouse and hunt their parents, who seem to enjoy this behavior from their young.
Maip pups, with their playful nature and steadily growing intelligence, often pick up play behaviors from their parents, or make up their own games. This can come in many forms such as a simulation of predator-prey dynamics - often resembling hide and seek! - copying one another’s vocalizations, or presenting their siblings with unfamiliar objects, ideally to provoke a reaction.
These games extend to parents as well, who may even encourage sparring and play-fighting amongst the brood. These fights sometimes become overzealous - resulting in injury, which parents are quick to correct with a low hiss if the fights become too intense. Maip parents never tolerate a scrap between their offspring to go to deathscars.
Pups remain inside the cave until they reach the mid-Juvenile stage - and only once nightfall lands are pups allowed to begin venturing outside of the nesting area. First time parents, however, are extremely protective of their offspring, and may wait to allow them out until they are absolutely sure they are safe - leading to frustrated and rapidly disobedient pups.
At adolescence, Maip pups are taught to hunt for themselves, being guided to critter burrows by their parents, who encourage their offspring to play with their prey to draw out hunts and wear down their stamina. Parents provide less and less food for their offspring, until pups are able to feed themselves without assistance.
Adolescent pups begin accompanying their parents on hunts integral experience for hunting experience and learning. These young pups - up to a maximum of 2 at a time - help to overwhelm prey and experience tactics their parents employ.  Adolescents can only assist in hunts against solo Large prey items and below.
Adolescent pups may also be permitted to take more of a leading role in hunts, targeting solo Medium and below prey, as well as lone offspring that have strayed too far from their parent’s watchful eyes.
Once pups mature at Sub-Adult, they no longer get to enjoy the benefit of their parents' kills and protection and prepare to be sent away. Before this happens, parents take some time to consider all the pups they have raised, determining whether one may stay behind as a favored offspring, forming a family trio.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned Maip pups hatch much the same as non-orphans, and are exceptionally noisy to draw approval from their parents, but quickly quiet down when they realize they are alone.
This quietness tends to persist into adulthood, and while it makes the individual much better at setting up ambushes and hunting, it may become troublesome when it comes to interacting with other Maip.
In order for an orphaned pup to sneak into a clutch of parented pups, the orphan will watch from afar, selecting the weakest and most submissive of the pups to target. At the right moment, they will try to kill this pup and take their place.
Some Maip pups, especially males, may choose to avoid the conflict of killing another pup to infiltrate. If able to, they will slip into the nest unnoticed by any lingering parents.
With the successful infiltration, this pup will roll in the nest as much as possible to cloak their old scent in the new scent, ensuring their safety in the clutch. If unable to roll in the nest, they will often rub themselves against the fresh corpse of the slain pup.
Maip pups that already dwell within the nest may react to infiltration differently depending on the method. The murder of a sibling may trigger the brood to cry out in fear, alerting the parents. However, the pup who infiltrated will mimic these panicked cries, hiding their identity among the brood.
An infiltrator who slips in without killing an existing pup must hide their scent in the nest quickly. Otherwise, present pups of the parents will move away and alert them of the newcomer.
Maip parents will often never discover this infiltrator if they are not alerted, or do not see it happen, and will treat it like the rest of their pups.
If unable to find surrogate parents, orphaned Maip will readily group with others in their situation, preferring safety in numbers.
Bild
Maip are nocturnal, and choose to find secluded and covered places to sleep during the day, becoming most active at night.
They have scales and eyes that are very sensitive to light and take care to shade if caught out during the day. Excessive exposure to sunlight can cause sunburns, and in extreme cases can cause blisters, or even blindness.
Maip enjoy mud baths or a soak in shallow water, rolling around to remove external parasites or any shedding skin.
Maip are very bold creatures, with high curiosity and next to no fear. They often stroll right up to other dinosaurs, laughing and cackling as they nip just behind their heels to see how they react, or chasing small herbivores for fun. They often use their many unique vocalizations to scare other dinosaurs, seemingly fully aware of just how unsettling their voices can be in the night.
However, unless hunting, if they are met with aggression by the object of their entertainment - and the species is their tier or higher - they back off, preferring a safer form of entertainment.
Should the other species start to run, Maip cannot help themselves but engage in chase - even if they have no intentions of hunting the other species. They air snap, release cackles and loud screeches, relishing in the thrill of terrifying the other species.
They can be heard screeching through the treeline, their piercing shrieks and howls echoing throughout the POI as they stalk under the shadows.
Maip are also extremely intelligent, and can be seen seeking out small carnivores such as Compsagnathus, Rhamphorhynchus or solo Latenivenatrix for grooming opportunities, and sometimes reward their little companions with scraps from their hunts.
If a Maip has not sought out a cleaner scavenger, they will torment them like any other small creature before they kill and eat them. ONLY one temporary companion may be permitted to eat from a kill, with others are aggressed away.
Bild
Male Maip are very shy. Encountering one another may reduce their anxieties, as they introduce themselves with a submissive roll before realizing they’re of the same sex, and exchange some passive pleasantries like grooming and socialization before continuing on their way.
Female Maip, however, are very dominant. They often bully males outside of breeding season (and more submissive females), toying with and spooking them until they flee. If a female encounters another dominant female, the two engage in a vicious brawl until one backs down.
If a solitary female Maip becomes notorious enough in an area, she may be avoided entirely by other Maip until the Dry season, when breeding is most common. Lone males in the area may keep tabs on her scent, ready to seek her out for courtship opportunities when the time is right.
✦ Cackles and Skulks
While Maip are not keen on others besides their mate or offspring, they occasionally interact with other Maip.
Maip groupings - while usually consisting of a pair of unrelated individuals bonded together with one of their offspring - may also consist of a pair or trio of siblings, grouping after dispersal from their parents. These three, if not seeking to mate, will bond for life very closely.
Sibling groups - or Cackles - also end up splitting when one or more of the group members seeks a mate. However, encountering their sibling again will result in excited calls and grooming between the two, indicating their long term memories and recognition.
Mated pairs of Maip - known as a Skulk -  become very close and show affection gestures towards one another, even when not raising pups. Play is also common, but females tend to take it too far, prompting panicked shrieks from their mates. Despite this, females back down, not wanting to distress their mate, and are quick to comfort them.
When a skulk encounters previously fledged pups from previous nests, they often recognize each other, and may spend time grooming and socializing before separating once more. These moments are brief, but affectionate.
✦ Solitary Behavior
Despite being a social species, Maip can easily thrive alone in the wilderness of Gondwa. However, these solitary carnivores must be cautious, as they do not have the benefit of a partner or siblings alongside them for safety. This lack of protection causes both male and female Maip alike to choose their hunts and battles wisely.
Solitary Maip find comfort in the confines and cover of the trees, keeping to the undergrowth as opposed to wandering in the open.
Solitary males are often unnoticed, being the more cautious, wary gender.
Solitary females, however, may gain a reputation in an area as a nuisance. If not seeking a courting partner, confident females will often turn their dominance displays onto unsuspecting males, or more submissive, younger females.
Solitary Maip are much more wary of others of their species, regardless of gender.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Albino Maip are an oddity amongst a species of highly specialized, nocturnal hunters. Their pale skin is useless at night, providing little to no camouflage for either offense or defense. This leaves them open not just for predation from other species, but their own kind as well. Albino Maip are cannibalized frequently.
Adult Albino Maip are extremely rare, as these megaraptorans are often born with a multitude of health conditions, such as blindness, deafness, and bone deformities. Additionally, they are born sickly, if they even survive hatching.
Regardless of rarity, albino Maip follow the same behavioral traits as non-mutated Maip; cunning, intelligent hunters. However, these unique dinosaurs avoid the sunlight at all costs, as exposure to sunlight, even in small amounts, can cause extremely painful burns. They also are much quieter than non-mutated Maip; focusing more so on survival than the satisfaction of giggles and shrieks.
Due to the fact that Albino Maip are often unaware of how dangerous their mutation is for them, albinos may attempt to court with others of their kind. However, this can prove fatal if the Maip they attempt to court with is hungry enough…
Albino Maip are NEVER accepted as mates.
Melanism is much more common in the genetics of Maip than albinism, proving to be more of a beneficial mutation than a detrimental one. Melanistic Maip often have a better time with camouflage, especially in dense forests under the cover of night due to their dark bodies.
Melanistic Maip behave the same as non-mutated Maip. However, in the day, they will seek cooler areas such as water pools and heavily shaded foliage, as these Maip have a tendency to overheat easily.
Bild
Due to their nomadic nature, Maip will rarely, if ever, attack each other for food or mates. Without the pressure of defending territory, they usually pass each other by.
When resources are scarce, or when a skulk has offspring, other Maip are not tolerated. Due to their cannibalistic nature and the risk other Maip pose to young pups, Maips viciously defend their caves and nesting sites from others.
Aggression is displayed primarily through vocal calls - with loud calls, screeches, hisses and cackles being employed to drive the other away.
✦ Females
Female Maip, if they find another female trailed by an interested male, may interject herself between them in an attempt to flash her display to the male. The previous female, if having been receptive to the male’s advances, may outright attack this newcomer to drive her away. This can result in a bloody fight, where the loser backs off at deathscars - with some even going as far as to fight until the death!
✦ Males
Male Maip are not often aggressive by any means. Alone, they are quick to surrender their kills to challengers - especially if the challenger is female. However, once in a mated pair or a group of siblings, this changes drastically. With a duty to protect their mates, regardless of sex, male Maip become defensive and wary of strange maip. Any attempt from a newcomer to infiltrate a nesting site, challenge for food, or even the rights to a mate will be met with heightened aggression.
Bild
✦ General
Maip spend much of their time, when not actively hunting, looking to terrorize and torment smaller dinosaurs. Chasing, nipping at, and cackling are all behaviors these megaraptorans indulge in.
Maip prefer species that react to their torment with fear. Species that are their tier or higher that react with aggression to their taunts will cause Maip to back off unless they are hunting, seeking out an easier form of entertainment.
However - should the other species be smaller than Maip, or simply break out into a run, Maip will engage in the chase, carefully employing piercing shrieks and air snaps to further terrorize the creature.
This chasing is solely for fun and entertainment, and never results in death unless a Maip somehow ends up trampling the target of their violent game. This is separate from their hunting behavior.
✦ Australovenator
Australovenator prefer to give Maip a wide berth due to their uncannily similar appearance, but Maip are able to effectively recognize the other species as separate to them, and may tolerate them for short periods, depending on individual personalities.
Australovenator are never tolerated when Maip have offspring under Sub-Adult with them.
✦ Tyrannotitan
Maip keep Tyrannotitan at a distance from them, and engage in a game of back and forth shrieking calls throughout the night.
Though initially considered almost a form of entertainment for the Maip, it is also considered to be a defensive gesture - by highlighting their location and distracting the Tyrannotitan, they more effectively manage to keep their distance, and track if they get too close to them.
Should Tyrannotitan take Maip unaware, they flee at all costs - with the only exception being a closely bonded individual (a sibling, or mate) being outright attacked, prompting the Maip to try and defend them.
✦ Rhamphorhynchus, Compsognathus & Solo Latenivenatrix
Maip can be seen seeking out these small species for grooming opportunities, and will sometimes reward their little noisy companions with scraps from their hunts.
Maip seeking a cleaner will often, upon seeing one, make soft calls and giggles to entice them closer, before rolling on the ground to show their need for cleaning. This is often accompanied by a crouched position, highlighting their lack of interest in hunting.
Maip only tolerate these small scavengers when they do not have offspring under Sub-Adult, and will only permit one at a time. Others are chased or aggressed away.
✦ Predator Response
Maip are a species that do not take kindly to the hunting efforts of other species against themselves. If a Maip detects another carnivorous species stalking or attempting to hunt them or their group, they aggressively scream in an attempt to ward off the predators.
Experienced, older Maip may opt to wait until the hunters charge in to attack before they leap into action, focusing their efforts to target one specific hunter and bearing down on them in order to end the fight quickly. This is especially true for groups of Maip, who will not hesitate to run down an attacker to kill it.
Younger Maip take longer to recognize the signs of an approaching predator. If alone at the first sight of danger, they may opt to flee in an attempt to outspeed or outlast their pursuer, or lose them in complicated surroundings such as forests or rocky outcrops.
If hunted and unable to flee their attackers, Maip will fight back relentlessly until their last breath.
Maip avoid Tyrannotitan due to the Apex carnivore's speed and ferocity, fleeing when they can. However Maip will always protect their closely bonded individuals from Tyrannotitan.
Bild
Maip are intelligent, cunning, and even cruel with their prey. Built for endurance and speed, Maip take great pride in their hunting strategies, which may differ between pairs depending on familial strategies and learned experiences.
Maip pairs prefer to use their numbers against their prey, flanking their target from the sides and startling them with hoots and laughs before closing the gap and landing their devastating blows.
If a pair or family trio are hunting together, one Maip often positions themselves as a distraction to bait carnivores or cause herbivores to flee, allowing the others to attack their chosen prey from the brush. Then, the “bait” Maip will join the fight until they bring down the creature.
Solo Maip are much more likely to bite then run, rather than stay and kill their prey. In order to protect themselves, they will chase down their prey and use their teeth and claws to inflict bleeding wounds before fleeing a few body lengths, repeating the process until their prey is felled from blood loss.
Utilizing their razor sharp teeth and gouging claws, all Maip bleed their prey out swiftly.  As endurance hunters, they are primed for long hunts that devastate and tire their prey.
Maip that are in a Cackle or Skulk - either parents and their favored pup, or three closely bonded siblings - are a prime example of using learned tactics for hunting, especially against Apex prey.
These groupings focus on larger prey in order to feed the entire group. Maip that have experienced hunting Apexes in the past develop efficient hunting strategies, with the knowledge of just how dangerous these targets can be.
These swift hunters often form a pattern of attack, with each member taking turns to rush in, slash at their target to open gaping wounds, and flee before they themselves can be injured.
No matter the number of Maips in the hunt, they always celebrate with a loud cackle before they eat, excited by the scent of blood and the temptation of fresh meat. After they eat their fill, they often groom eachother to clean one another’s wounds, and roll after gorging themselves on their kill.
Bild
✦ Courtship
Once they desire the prospect of a mate, Maip begin the start of their courtship ritual as soon as the sun goes down.
✦ Opposite-Sex Courting
Upon seeking courtship, Maip of both sexes find their way to Burned Forest or Wollemi Forest. These locations are ideal, the areas littered with boulders and hills, which serve as high platforms for females to stand upon. Maip take to this area to find potential mates, and other Maip for interactions.
Female Maip stand upon these rocky formations and shriek. Their calls echo through the sparse woods, attracting potential suitor males to her. These calls often wake potential males in the POI and neighboring ones, drawing them out for courtship.
Males approach the rocks she stands upon, gently giggling and cooing to show interest in the female. The taller or more impressive the rock, the more impressive the female appears.
Only one female Maip may attempt courtship at a time. If multiple females arrive at Burned Forest, they must fight for the right to court, battling until one reaches deathscars. The loser is forced to leave Burned Forest, and is only able to return the following night.
Once the female Maip has decided she is ready, she will dismount from the rocks she claimed to shriek from, and give the males that have gathered an encouraging laugh. This laugh signifies the beginning of the courtship ritual.
The Female then sets off to find a place to settle and rest for the rest of the night, allowing interested males to follow behind her. However, this is part of the game. Males who seek to win her approval must trail behind her, stalking the female and remaining out of sight as she travels, only alerting her to himself with quiet giggles to signify his intentions.
Once she finds a place to rest, she will not permit any of the males to come too close. Each male must find their own, separate place to rest nearby, to wait it out until the female moves again.
Individuals - including the female - may temporarily leave their resting place to get food and water, but promptly return once they have met their needs.
 
Once a day cycle has passed and the next night falls, the female emerges from her resting place and begins her travels - keenly aware she is being trailed by interested males.
The interested males then trail behind the female, careful to try and keep themselves hidden and out of sight. Males that follow too obviously do not get chosen as a mate.
Several males may often show interest in one specific female. However, they do not fight directly for her with teeth and claws. Instead, they seek to sabotage one another. Males run to their competitor, release a shrill bark, :danger_call: alert call, and run away. This is aimed to reveal to the female where their competition is hiding, giving away his position in favor of concealing his own, and diverting attention.
If the female discovers a male’s position too many times, she will chase him off aggressively before returning to her place, continuing the gauntlet.
This quiet, stealthy pursuit will continue the rest of the night. By sunrise, the female's game comes to an end. She will stop once she decides she has finished, and turn around to face the remaining suitors, posturing with her body held high. (This can be showcased with the ( ? ) emote.)
Upon seeing the female end the chase, any remaining males emerge from their hiding places to reveal themselves. They mimic her stance, standing tall with claws outstretched to signify they have completed the female's gauntlet.
If there is more than one male remaining, the female will choose which she will bond with, standing beside her chosen suitor and hissing a mild warning to the remaining male(s), who promptly aim to return to Burned Forest, and seek out a new mate.
After a new pair is formed, Maip form a lifelong bond, and rapidly begin to show large swathes of affection towards each other. Females - though dominant and aggressive - show unusual tenderness to her mate, and males grow bolder when their mate or family are faced with threats.
✦  Same-Sex Courting
Males
When males take interest in other males, they watch from afar, analyzing this potential mate before approaching. The interested male creeps close, body close to the ground, cooing and issuing affectionate calls to show his intent: courtship, and the potential of a lifelong partnership.
Males approached by another male for courtship may be confused at first, backing away to make space between them. This allows both males to become familiar with one another, and assess each other's intentions.
The approaching male, to further signify his intention of courtship, will roll to show his vulnerable, soft belly to his potential partner. With this show of trust and affection, the opposite male approaches to giggle at the newcomer.
Male x Male courtship is particularly unique. Rather than stalking one another, males will engage in a game of copy-cat. If both males are interested in courting, they begin with an affectionate call. One male will initiate, using calls and body language in various patterns before stopping, watching intently.
The opposite male will copy the first's calls, with the process repeating at least once more before the two approach and nuzzle together affectionately.
Male x Male pairs are often the quickest pairing to strengthen, with both males constantly reassuring one another and comforting their partner through life's scariest moments.
Male pairs often see a stark increase in bravado - perhaps due to a lack of female protector. Having only one another to rely on, their aggression increases, with anxieties fading away as their bond strengthens with their mate.
 
Females
Opposite to their more timid male counterparts, female Maip take courtship several steps further. Due to their aggressive nature, encountering another female rarely ends with a peaceful encounter.
If a female is only interested in courtship with another female, and no other females approach, she will continue shrieking, ignoring any males that gather entirely.
Females seeking to court another female still travel to Burned Forest and claim a rock for themselves, or search for a female who is already atop the rocks, shrieking to draw attention.
Rather than gathering below the rocks like males, females in search of another female companion attempt to join her on the same rocks, calling out with shrieks of her own.
If the female Maip who had first taken residence on the rocks is uninterested in a female mate, she will aggressively ward off the intruder with a scream, claws outstretched in warning.
If the Maip atop the rocks will tolerate a female mate, she will only respond with a low hiss. Not a rejection, but an invitation for a challenge.
Both females will disembark from the rocks, circling one another to gauge their strength, hissing and shrieking at one another. Younger, less experienced females may flee at this confrontation. However, if neither back down, they will begin to nip at the air, testing eachother’s resolve.
After this display of strength, the females engage in the same copy-cat game as a male pair, testing their ability to copy one another correctly by following one another’s patterns of calls. Once complete, and both females accept one another, they approach and groom one another - before leaving to solidify their newfound bond.
Female x Female pairings are especially rare due to how aggressive they are. However, if they do succeed, they form a particularly formidable bond.
✦ Once Paired
Once they pair, Maip of any gendered pairings form a lifelong bond. This pairing remains permanent, and will only dissolve if one Maip in the pair passes prematurely, or is missing for extended periods of time
If one of a pair of Maip dies, the other will mourn for a long period. Some may take another mate after grieving the old one, while others prefer to remain alone for the remainder of their lives, and take on a solitary, silent life.
✦ Nesting
The signal to nest comes specifically from the female in an opposite-sex pair, with her behavior becoming broody and unusual.
Oftentimes the female signals to her male companion her eagerness to nest by collecting nesting materials and stowing them away - stashing them into various hides, ranging from logs to rocky crags. These hoards contain nesting materials such as reeds, roots and branches, and are placed near to - or inside of - caverns that would serve as ideal nesting locations.
Males are very quick to catch onto this, and begin assisting them with gathering materials.
Sometimes, males may can be more selective with nesting locations, and attempt to lead their mates to safer, more covered areas away from the harshness of the sun.
The soon-to-hatch brood is supervised from afar by Maip parents, keeping a careful distance as to not draw attention to the den site. Due to their more aggressive nature, females will return to the nest less frequently than the males do, as fathers take a majority of parental care in the early stages.
Same-sex Maip pairs cannot nest, and do not adopt.
✦ Parenthood
Once eggs hatch, both parents rush to the nest and begin a parade of calls -  ranging from coos to cackles - and listen acutely for a response from their pups.
Should an elder offspring be present, this offspring joins in the chorus to welcome in their new family members.
If their pup is born into the world and silent, the parents will consider the pup sickly, and opt to cannibalize them immediately for the safety of the other pups. 
However, they never do this if this pup is their only pup in a clutch. Instead, this pup is doted on more so than if it were born in a full brood, hoping to ensure the solo pup's survival.
Maip parents (and elder offspring) often leave the nest at the same time, allowing the parents to hunt larger game, but also to avoid bringing attention to the brood. This can be dangerous for pups, but is usually beneficial for the adults.
Once pups reach mid-juvenile and nightfall arrives, the nesting site is left behind, and offspring are coaxed out to join their parents in exploring the area around them.
Parents happily engage in play with their offspring, enjoying roughhousing and teaching them different calls, and how to hunt. This can be seen with one parent acting as "prey," while the other encourages the brood to stalk, giggle, and pounce. This is important in the formative years, as these skills will be needed in adulthood.
At adolescence, parents expect their offspring to accompany them on hunts - though only 2 pups are permitted to assist at the discretion of the parents, and must back off at half health. However, they prefer to have pups watch nearby, careful so that they don't disrupt the hunt for their parents. Keeping pups away from active hunts is observed more often in first time parents, rather than experienced pairs.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Once pups come of age at Sub-Adult, Maip parents will have stopped providing food for them entirely, and begin aggressing them away from their kills - and themselves.
Before the final dispersal, parents take their "pick of the litter". They assess all of their freshly grown offspring, measuring them and determining whether or not they want them to remain in the group.
Health, ambitiousness, and curiosity are factors that are analyzed in choosing a favoured pup, and are qualities that are chosen at the discretion of the parents on what they favor the most.
Parents only rarely choose a new favored offspring to remain if they already have one with them. Often times, that offspring disperses on their own to find a mate and to form their own skulk, and rarely are they pushed out in favor of a younger sibling.
If they do get pushed out, they are body blocked by their parents, who turn their backs on them, lavishing affection on the new chosen offspring. This can be somewhat hurtful for the former older offspring, but they leave willingly, understanding that their place has been lost.
Bild
Like many other nomadic species, Maip are particularly prone to arthritis due to their life on the move. Difficulty with moving long distances, and requiring more frequent rests is commonplace with elderly Maip.
Lifelong pairs of Maip frequently spend the end of their days together, spending more time curled up with one another in a den rather than focusing on rearing pups.
Male Maip become more docile and focused, with their shy and timid nature reducing to a content, yet attentive wariness. Females become much less aggressive, looking to ignore or avoid combat with other females if they can handle it.
Older Maip often struggle with issues with their teeth, due to their love of gnawing bones. Cracked, broken, or even missing teeth result in reduced bite force. These Maip often refuse to use their teeth in combat or hunts, opting for use of their ever-strong claws.
Maip in a mated pair often rely more and more on their partner - though pairs are usually formed by individuals close in age. With both members of a pair aging, they continue to hunt and provide for one another, although their older years prompts them to focus more and more on easier prey.
✦ Death
Solitary Maip nearing the end will often hide themselves in a safe den, or a particularly well-shaded patch of foliage to rest and peacefully pass away - if starvation, predation or illness doesn't claim them first.
When one member of a pair passes away from old age, the other is quick to follow, usually suffering extreme stress from the loss of their mate.
If only one part of the pair remains after the passing of the other, this heartbroken Maip may fall into a deep depression - with extreme cases provoking a prolonged loss of appetite, leading to their eventual death.
Maip pairings rearing offspring may find themselves with the loss of a pup due to predation, sickness, or other natural causes of death. Parents do not mourn their offspring until they reach Adolescence - with cannibalization common on sickly offspring to protect the health of the rest of the brood.
Bonded siblings of Maips from the same clutch will mourn the death of their sibling very deeply, their grief taking them down a path similar to the loss of a mate.
Bild
Due to having a lifelong bond with their companion, Maips spend every waking moment with one another once they form a pair.
Because of this strong bond, if they lose their partner, Maip often become inconsolable and uncharacteristically silent, guarding the body for as long as they can before scavengers close in. Maip will mourn their partners, refusing to eat or socialize for up to 3 days. After they begin to feel better, they’ll slowly care for themselves once more before instinct drives them to seek out a new relationship.  Some individuals, however, may never form another pair again.
If a Maip's partner is lost during combat, they can defend their mate’s corpse for up to 30 seconds before they must abandon the body to scavengers or predators. After this, they will mourn for up to 3 days.
Maip may not attempt to hunt other players in the courtship grounds and must primarily feed from critters or carrion.
 
Bild
Maip may cannibalize weak pups in clutches, presuming they are not the only pup in the clutch. 8.4
Orphan pups may attempt to kill a weak pup of similar age within a clutch in hopes of stealing their place with their parents. 8.4
Maip can defend their deceased mates body for 30 seconds. 5.1.1
Maip may defend their strongly bonded individuals against Tyrannotitan. 3.2.3
Maip do not use Vampiric Bite on each other.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 21:36
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 03:27
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Maip are Large Nocturnal Terrestrial Carnivores.
Maip can group up to 3 sub/adults, with unlimited offspring. Maip only  adopt in specific circumstances. A mated pair of Maips - with or without a favored offspring - is known as a skulk. A pair, or trio of bonded Maip siblings is known as a cackle.
Maip are aggressive.
Maip can have up to 3 in an engagement. Maip can have up to 3 in a hunting party.
Solo maip may hunt up to Large tier. Maip in groupings of 2+ individuals may hunt up to Solo Apex tier.
Maip flee from Tyrannotitan in most circumstances - but will always defend their mate or closely bonded individual if the Tyrannotitan attacks them.
Maip may not scavenge.
Maip are night stalkers and nocturnal hunters, known for their howling shrieks and terrifying vocalizations, that they seem to relish in calling out! They frequently torment other species, employing a range of air snaps and unnerving calls to worry and frighten their victims - even when they have no intention of hunting them.
When hunting, Maip are endurance hunters - capable of harassing their prey over very long distances. They slash and bite their victims, aiming to bleed them out and tire them. Highly intelligent, they utilize other group members to distract and confuse their prey.
Maip have no physical dimorphism, but have behavioral dimorphism. Males are shy and timid, greeting each other with submissive gestures such as rolling on the ground and exposing their bellies, while females are boisterous and dominant, greeting each other with a raised posture and outstretched claws.
Maip travel to Burned Forest or Wollemi Forest to seek a partner for courtship. Once bonded, they pair for life.
 
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes):  20-40-50-70 = 180 total
Combat Weight: 4000
Adjusted Stats:
⁨
- Combat weight increased to 4000 from 3500
- Sprint speed slightly increased
- Health increased to 650 from 600
- Claw bleed amount slightly increased
- Sprint stamina cost per second slightly reduced
⁩ 
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?