Kelenken
Kelenken was a large "terror bird" that lived approximately 15 million years ago in what we now call Argentina. "Terror” bird is an apt description of Kelenken, who was flightless and possessed a strong and heavy body, equipped with a powerful ripping beak. Kelenken was thought to have reached heights of up to 3m, and weighed in at over 220lbs.

⁨⁨⁨
Author: Kittyful, with contributions from Red
Photo: Kapture_Kat
Profile inspired by secretary birds, penguins, and swans.
⁩⁩⁩

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 02.02.2025 23:58
Overview
Details
Medium Cathemeral Terrestrial Carnivore
Kelenken form temporary pairbonds that may develop into lifelong pairbonds after 5 successful clutches - or mutual decision.
Same-sex pairs may opt to form lifelong pairbonds after 5 successful adoptions in which they raise offspring to adulthood, or mutual decision.
Kelenken are sedentary when grouped, and nomadic when solitary.
Kelenken are territorial to other Kelenken when in a full cast.
Kelenken have a tolerant nature.
Kelenken may not scavenge from claimed corpses and must contest for a body. Critters and abandoned corpses may be freely eaten.
Kelenken tolerate albino and melanistic individuals.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 8 Sub/Adults of any relation.
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a cast.

Additionally, Kelenken may form dispersal groups consisting of unlimited individuals of adolescent and below.


Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 4 Kelenken may enter an engagement or hunt.
Kelenken may hunt up to solo Large tier, but specialize in Medium tier and lower.
Up to 2 Adolescent Kelenken may hunt up to Small tier.
Adolescent Kelenken can assist with their parents’ hunts, up to the limit of 4.

POI Challenges between Casts & Other Kelenken:
A full cast (8 members) of Kelenken will not tolerate other Kelenken within their current POI. If another Kelenken or group of Kelenken is spotted, and it is not another full cast, 4 Sub/Adult Kelenken may work together to drive the other Kelenken out.

POI Challenges between Full Casts:
If there is a territory challenge issued between two full casts, all Kelenken may engage.

Preferred Prey/Diet
Kelenken may hunt up to solo Large tier, but specialize in Medium tier and lower. If a Medium or lower tier is present in the POI, it must be targeted by Kelenken before solo Large tier.
Kelenken will hunt Latenivenatrix or Deinonychus first, and Achillobator or Utahraptor next, before all other prey.
Kelenken may attempt a hunt on any hatchling or juvenile, regardless of size tier, even if protected by an adult.
The exception to this is offspring protected by adult Apex carnivores, or Maip.
Kelenken flee from adult Apex carnivores and Maip.
Kelenken do not hunt one another, even if desperately hungry. They can still contest another Kelenken for a body down, and may eat from Kelenken remains if presented with them.
Kelenken do not tolerate scavengers.
Kelenken are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
Kelenken nest anywhere in their preferred POIs. Their nests are constructed out of reeds, branches and roots.

Physical Dimorphism
♀️ Females, known as pens, lack the head feathers that cobs possess, and are usually found in desaturated colors. Browns, greys, blacks and whites are acceptable.
Suitable subspecies include: Standard, Brow Feathers, Titanis
♂️ Males, known as cobs, have pronounced head feathers and typically brighter, flashier colors with more contrast.
Suitable subspecies include: Head Feathers, Head and Brow Feathers, Variation, Phorusrhacos
Physical dimorphism for Kelenken is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
 
Growing Up
Offspring Behavior
Baby Kelenken, known as chicks, are born helpless as soon as they hatch from the egg.
Recovering from their struggle out of the egg, chicks spend the entirety of their hatchling stage within the nest, huddled together against their siblings for warmth.
Both parents return to the nest frequently with food for their chicks, causing chicks to squawk and clack their beaks loudly as they rally for attention and to be the first one fed.
At all other times, up until juvenile, chicks remain silent and motionless within the nest, only occasionally clicking at their siblings. As they are born in nests on the ground, they instinctively keep themselves quiet to avoid detection from predators.
Once chicks are juvenile, their parents will begin encouraging them out of the nest with nudges and encouraging beak snaps. Juveniles will take their first wobbly steps and then spend the rest of their lives on their feet.
Chicks flit between both mother and father, investigating everything they can get their beaks into, snapping their beaks at and playing with their siblings.
When both parents are out hunting, chicks wait patiently in the dense undergrowth to avoid detection from predators, and rush to their parents once the kill is made to feast on the corpse.
Kelenken posture and hiss at other chicks from other clutches and most other small dinosaurs they encounter. Small, fast moving dinosaurs may be pecked at.
As they age, chicks gradually become more social with other chicks and individuals from the same cast, or even other casts in the area if they are tolerated to do so.
Adolescents, fuelled by a growing sense of independence, become less reliant on their parents for food, and take to hunting critters and even small dinosaurs as soon as they are able to. However, they may still trail behind the adults to learn hunting techniques and benefit from scavenging opportunities - and never say no to food when offered.
At Sub-Adult, Kelenken chicks may opt to stay a part of their parents’ cast or disperse to find or form their own. If there is not room for a potential partner within a cast, they always move on to find new opportunities.
Parents prefer to go with their children if possible.
Sub-Adult Kelenken may disperse alongside their siblings in search of a territory or mate.
Orphaned Behavior
Orphaned Kelenken spend a very long time waiting in the area they hatched into for an attentive parent to come to their aid.
If lucky enough to hatch with siblings, they bundle together, forming little piles of fluffy chicks. Even if uncomfortable, chicks rarely make noise, waiting for their parents to arrive.
If a potential parent approaches (anything bigger than the baby Kelenken) it squawks up at it, remaining seated until affectionately greeted.
Orphaned Kelenken do not imprint, but if discovered by another dinosaur while in the Hatchling stage, it will rise and begin to follow it. If not fed or tenderly cared to, aggressed, or ignored, it will scamper off, and will not repeat this behavior unless found by another Kelenken.
Once orphaned chicks reach Juvenile, and realise that no parental figure is coming for them, they will move from the nesting site sooner, taking very wobbly and uncertain steps in a desperate ploy for food.
Orphaned Chicks remain quite flighty and less confident than those that get raised with parents. They will avoid all other dinosaurs at most times until they reach Sub Adult, unless they can find another orphaned chick to band together with.
Orphaned Kelenken chicks are most often terrified of any aerial creatures and any apex creatures. With a frightened squawk, they almost tumble over their own legs in order to get away from them and into the nearest den.
Orphaned Adolescent chicks begin to gain a bit more confidence and footing – most often gained from hunting critters. If confronted by anything smaller than them, adolescent Kelenken chicks will often study it in great curiosity. If it bolts, an adolescent Kelenken chick will give chase.
Successful hunts (on either critter or other creatures) steadily strengthen a young orphaned Kelenken, and help it to match as it quickly grows into adulthood.
Once a Kelenken reaches adulthood, it begins to seek out other members of its species, or settles down with its other siblings or chicks it finds to form a cast.
Abandoned Chicks
Suddenly losing a parent can be very alarming for a chick - but the following rejection from the surviving parent causes extreme distress to young Kelenken.
Confused and worried by their sudden rejection, chicks always attempt to continue following the parent - only stopping when they are aggressed away for their attempts.
Once they realise that their parent has abandoned them, chicks firmly stick close to their siblings, venturing into the world alone and terrified.
Chicks that are abandoned that do not end up adopted by other Kelenken end up to be much more flighty and nervous adults, bolting at sudden movements or noises.
They do form extremely strong bonds with their siblings in these circumstances, and prefer to remain in a cast with them wherever possible.
Kelenken chicks that witness the killing of their parent often end up with a lifelong fear of that species.
General Behavior
Kelenken enjoy a variety of areas to live in - from vast open plains, to more rocky biomes, to thick forests, Kelenken readily adapt to their environment and typically prefer to stay in a POI that resembles that of their childhood.
With their sharp eyesight, Kelenken are instantly attracted to anything that moves. A fast, small dinosaur is a prime target and can prompt a Kelenken into a sudden chase, even if it ends up unsuccessful.
Taking dust baths is a common activity for Kelenken. They shake their feathers into dry, loose dirt and patches of sand helps to dislodge unwanted critters from their skin, and smooth out their feathers, which keeps them well groomed.
Kelenken spend nearly their entire lives on their feet, from the moment they can stand. They are rarely seen at rest, and during hunts they pursue their prey effortlessly - taking advantage of their excellent stamina while pushing their prey to their limits.
When resting, Kelenken retreat to areas of dense vegetation for protection. If a Kelenken is in a pair, typically one member of the pair will stay awake, keeping a protective eye over their sleeping companion and swapping through the night to ensure they are both well rested. Both males and females perform this behavior for one another.
Within the POI they currently occupy, Kelenken patrol with a keen eye, scoping for danger or potential prey. When in a full cast, the patrolling Kelenkens keep a firm look-out for other Kelenkens, and drive them out immediately.

Solitary Kelenken:
Solitary Kelenken are nomadic, which means they do not stay in a particular POI for a long. They spend the majority of their time migrating between different areas in search of other Kelenkens to form a pair or cast with - or simply to seek out better hunting opportunities.
Some Kelenken prefer to remain solitary throughout their lives; lacking any natural drive to form pairs or even join a cast. These independent individuals are well-adapted to thrive on their own - capable of self-sufficiency and survival without social bonds. However, this behavior is rare, and largely depends on individual personalities as most Kelenken prefer the companionship of a mate or group.

Albino and Melanistic Kelenken:
Male Kelenken that exhibit albinism or melanism are often mistaken as female due to their coloration. They can experience difficulties in attracting a female mate, in comparison to males that display the typical dimorphism with bright and contrasting colors.
Females with these mutations are tolerated by their peers and face no difficulties during courtship.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Kelenken sleep in short bursts at any time of day, and often sleep in shifts, with bonded individuals taking turns staying awake to watch over one another.
Kelenken prefer to rest in deep shrubbery or small dens, but may even sleep in hollowed out trees and logs.
To stay dry, they often seek shelter to sleep in when it rains or snows. During this time, they socialize quietly with one another, preening each other’s feathers and only leaving the den if hungry or thirsty.
 
Social Interaction
Kelenken form deep, affectionate bonds that can occur in both opposite-sex and same-sex pairs. These relationships often begin as temporary arrangements for companionship or child-rearing but frequently evolve into lifelong pairbonds.
Once a lifelong pairbond is formed - either by mutual decision, or raising offspring together successfully 5 times or more - they mate for life, only taking another if their original mate dies - but only after a grieving period is observed.
Up to 4 pairs, or 8 individuals of any relation make up a co-ordinated group known as a cast. A cast claims a large territory and work together to keep any other Kelenken out of their territory. Within their chosen POI, pairs will take turns patrolling and monitoring the territory.
Pairs within a cast stick to each other like glue - even when the relationship is young and still considered a temporary pairbond. They are rarely seen far apart from one another, and often mirror each other's behavior. This synchronicity helps to strengthen their bond and maintain cohesion within the cast.
Kelenken will only groom their mate, and will not tolerate others grooming their mate, or their mate attempting to groom others. With extreme jealousy, they will hiss and posture angrily, and aim to chase the other Kelenken away from their mate, even if the offender is part of the cast.
Despite the process being lengthy, bonding with another Kelenken to form a pair is a core aspect of a Kelenken’s life. These pairs, once closely bonded, will fight to the death for one another, even going as far to briefly defend their body if their mate dies. 
The corpse of a dead mate may be defended for up to 1 minute after they have died, before relinquishing it to the hunter that has killed it.
While the core of a Kelenken’s social structure relates to their relationship with their chosen mate, they also enjoy interacting and socializing with other pairs within the cast. Casts typically consist of up to 4 adult pairs - fostering a small, close-knit community, but may also include individuals that have not yet formed a pairbond.
Pairs form friendships with other pairs within the cast, often sharing responsibilities such as guarding hatchlings, scouting for prey, or providing comfort during stressful times. These friendships are vital to the overall harmony of the cast, as they create a sense of collective responsibility and mutual trust.
Social gatherings are a key part of Kelenken life. These include ritualistic group displays such as synchronized vocalizations, elaborate preening sessions, and communal dances that reinforce the cast's unity and hierarchy. These displays also serve as an opportunity for juvenile Kelenken to observe and learn social cues from the adults.
 
Aggressive Interaction
While chicks are hatchling age, and unable to leave the nest or move about freely, parents are extremely protective over them. Kelenken do not tolerate other adults approaching their chicks until the chicks have at least reached juvenile age, and are able to leave the nest. This applies to any pair, even those within their cast.
Once a cast is full with 8 sub adults or adults, Kelenken will not tolerate other Kelenken within the vicinity. Casts will angrily size up against other casts, hissing and beak snapping to drive them out. These displays are typically a display only and one side will normally back down and leave the area - but the cast will resort to attacking if the other Kelenken do not leave.
Kelenken do not hunt one another, even if desperately hungry. They can still contest another Kelenken for a body down, and may eat from Kelenken remains if presented with them.

POI Challenges between Casts & Other Kelenken:
A full cast (8 members) of Kelenken will not tolerate other Kelenken within their current POI. If another Kelenken or group of Kelenken is spotted, and it is not another full cast of 8 Sub/Adults, 4 Kelenken may work together to drive the other Kelenken out.

POI Challenges between Full Casts:
If there is a territory challenge issued between two full casts, all sub adult and adult Kelenken within the cast may engage.
 
Cross-Species Interaction
Kelenken have excellent vision and are attracted to quick moving prey. Because of this, Kelenken will often chase down the speedy Compsognathus and Dryosaurus even if not hungry, purely following their instincts but making a sport out of it. If the Kelenken manages to catch up to the creature, they typically lose interest and only attack if actually hungry.
Kelenken despise Latenivenatrix and Deinonychus, and these are the first dinosaurs they will hunt, if they spot them within line of sight (following regular hunting requirements). Both species tend to form large groups so Kelenken are quick to target any that they see in hopes of reducing the population and preventing any risk to future chicks.
Kelenken flee from adult Apex carnivores and Maip.
Kelenken do not tolerate scavengers.
 
Hunting Strategy
Kelenken may hunt up to solo Large tier, but specialize in Medium tier and below. If a Medium or lower tier is present in the POI, it must be targeted by Kelenken before solo Large tier.
Kelenken will hunt Latenivenatrix or Deinonychus first, and Achillobator or Utahraptor next, before all other prey.
Kelenken may attempt a hunt on any hatchling or juvenile, regardless of size tier, even if protected by an adult.
The exception to this is offspring protected by adult Apex carnivores, or Maip.
Kelenken are adept at hunting prey at both day and night, and work together in their cast to hunt down unsuspecting prey.
Prime targets are sleeping dinosaurs or baby dinosaurs, which Kelenken will swarm on and take turns ripping apart with their strong beaks, or kicking with their powerful legs.
If the hunt is not a swift or efficient kill, Kelenken enjoy chasing and pushing their prey to the limit, running them down or waiting them out until they panic. Pairs work together to distract protective parents, leading them away from their offspring and making quick work of their prey.
Kelenken do not hunt one another, even if desperately hungry. They can still contest another Kelenken for a body down, and may eat from Kelenken remains if presented with them.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 03.02.2025 00:00
Courtship & Parenthood
Courting is an elaborate affair whereby unpaired Kelenken will gather together in the middle of the night and put on a display to attract a mate.
This behavior is actually one of the more vulnerable times in a Kelenken's life cycle, as it is when they are at their loudest and out in the open.
Cobs begin their display by picking a spot in the open, and begin clacking their beak, lifting their head and flapping their wings. During this dance they release low rumbles and may move from side to side as well.
After their first dance ends, the cob will crane his head to puff out his chest feathers, and then preens his chest and wings.
The dance begins again, both the displaying and preening behaviors following one another in a cycle until either a mate is impressed, or he grows tired and ends his display.
Pens (and sometimes cobs) watch the display from afar, and approach very slowly, clacking their beaks if they are interested.
Impressed individuals eventually find the dance irresistible, and join in, lifting their heads and flapping their wings in the same dance, much to the cob's delight.
Once mates have been secured, they sit beside each other, grooming and beak clacking contentedly; the beginning of a hopefully long and fruitful relationship together.
Some pens may seek to impress other pens to form a lifelong pair bond with. In this event they will behave the same as cobs, performing a dance in a hope to entice impressed pens to their side. If it is a pen that is performing the courtship dance, cobs will never show interest.
Once a pairbond has formed, courting does not need to be initiated again in order to form a nest. Both parents will work together to secure a nesting site, which they will viciously defend from other dinosaurs and Kelenken outside of their cast.
Cobs and pens in a pairbond will take it in turns to bring objects back to their nest to decorate it. Anything from reeds, branches, pinecones to flowers may be used. The more elaborate the nest the better, and the deeper the pairbond will be.
Same sex pairs may exhibit the same behavior and build a nest, even though they will never produce eggs together. 
Once they realise that their nest will not produce any viable eggs, they may notice other chicks within the cast, and steal one to raise it when the parents' backs are turned.
The chick will happily transfer over to their new parents so long as they are doted on. Only one chick may be stolen at a time for a same sex Kelenken pair to raise.
If a parent notices that a chick has been stolen by a same sex pair, they will usually turn a blind eye, providing they have at least one other offspring to care for. If the chick stolen was their only chick, they will attack the other pair, only backing down when either they or their mate is grievously injured (death scars).
Orphaned chicks from outside the cast may also be adopted by same-sex Kelenken pairs in this way.
Opposite sex Kelenken pairs will only adopt if an orphaned chick that is a similar age to their own, manages to sneak into the existing nest.
Both parents will take it in turns to bring food back to the nest and care for their offspring. One parent almost always stays at the nest or with chicks, to defend them from others.
At juvenile, chicks can start to leave the safety of the nest, and are usually accompanied by at least one watchful parent.
When parents leave to hunt, chicks are ushered into the safety of dense undergrowth, or if a pair has a close friendship with another pair they may choose to group their offspring together for safety while a hunting party is out.
When chicks reach Sub-Adult, they are able to leave the cast they were born in. They always prefer to remain in the cast with their parents if there is room for them.
In some instances, a cast may have no room for newly aged-out offspring. Parents often choose to split off from their current cast to form a new cast with their young. This usually results in them being forced to leave the POI.
Kelenken that lose a mate whilst having offspring will fall into a period of deep sadness and end up rejecting their chicks. The chicks become a constant reminder of what they have lost, and the remaining parent cannot bear the sight of them any longer. 
These chicks may then be adopted by pairs within the cast. Abandoned chicks without a cast to rely on are forced to strike out with any siblings they may have.
Elderly & End of Life (Optional)
As Kelenken age, they naturally slow down, becoming less active and spending more time resting or observing their surroundings. Elderly Kelenken are often found perched in shaded areas, watching over the cast rather than actively participating in hunts or territorial POI patrols.
Elderly Kelenken can become quite cantankerous and demanding of other pairs within the cast - often clacking their beaks at them and encouraging the younger individuals to hunt for them.
Kelenkens that are in a lifelong pair grow even closer to one another in old age, and exhibit signs of distress when parted from their other half.
Unfortunately, when one of the pair dies, the other follows shortly afterwards. The heartache causes a deep sadness for the remaining member of the pair, causing them to refuse to eat or hunt for food. They remain near the body of their fallen loved one where possible, and usually die of starvation.
If the mate has died due to a predator hunting them, they may defend the corpse for up to 1 minute before allowing the predator to claim it.
Notes
None

Rule Exemptions
Kelenken may hunt any protected hatchling or juvenile, unless it is protected by an apex carnivore or maip 1.10.1
If there is a territory challenge issued between two full casts, all sub adult and adult Kelenken within the cast may engage. 1.3
If a Kelenken's mate has died due to a predator hunting them, they may defend the corpse for up to 1 minute before allowing the predator to claim it. 5.1.1
Kelenken are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4

Dynasty Adjused Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 1950
Adjusted Stats: Hatchling thirst depletion rate adjusted from 0.04 to 0.01
 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 03:10
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Kelenken are Medium  Cathemeral Terrestrial Carnivores.
Kelenken can group up to 8 sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees. This group is known as a cast.
Kelenken are tolerant and sedentary when in groups, but nomadic when solo. Kelenken in a full cast are territorial to other Kelenken.
Kelenken can have up to 4 in an engagement or hunting party. In a territory dispute between two full casts, Kelenken may engage with up to 8.
Kelenken may hunt up to solo Large tier, but must target Medium tier or lower if multiple options are available in the POI. 
Kelenken will hunt Latenivenatrix or Deinonychus first, and Achillobator or Utahraptor next, before all other prey.
Kelenken may not scavenge and will flee from adult Apex carnivores and Maip.
Kelenken perform elaborate nighttime courtship displays, consisting of dancing and synchronized movements.
Bonding with another Kelenken to form a pair is a core aspect of a Kelenken’s life. These pairs, once closely bonded, will fight to the death for one another, even going as far to briefly defend their body if their mate dies. Chicks from such a pair are abandoned if one parent dies.
The corpse of a dead mate may be defended for up to 1 minute.
This begins as a temporary arrangement at first, but often deepens into lifelong pairbonds. They are highly jealous, and stick close to their mate at all times. They do not tolerate other Kelenken grooming their mate.
Despite this, Kelenken pairs usually form friendships and bonds with other pairs within their cast.
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?