Kaiwhekea is an extinct genus of plesiosaur from the Late Cretaceous (Maastrichtian age) of what is now New Zealand. Kaiwhekea belongs to the clade Aristonectinae inside the family Elasmosauridae.

⁨⁨
Author: QueenBella, with contributions from Lukesasa.
Photo: ANG3L
Profile inspired by Sea Turtles.
⁩⁩

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2025-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 14.06.2025 22:28
Overview
Details
Medium Cathemeral Aquatic Carnivore
Kaiwhekea form promiscuous bonds.
Kaiwhekea are nomadic.
Kaiwhekea have a tolerant nature.
Kaiwhekea may not scavenge from claimed corpses and must contest for a body. Critters and abandoned corpses may be freely eaten.
Kaiwhekea tolerate albino and melanistic individuals.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 8 Sub/Adults, consisting of 6 females and 2 males.
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a bale.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Kaiwhekea include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls  to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 3 Sub/Adults may enter an engagement or hunt.
Kaiwhekea flee from adult Spinosaurus and Deinosuchus.
Kaiwhekea may hunt up to Large tier.
Male Kaiwhekea do not protect offspring.


Preferred Prey
Kaiwhekea may hunt up to Large tier.
However, if unattended Leedsichthys offspring are available, they must hunt these first.
Afterwards, Kaiwhekea must hunt suitable Medium tier options before targeting Large tiers.
Kaiwhekea flee from adult Spinosaurus and Deinosuchus. Offspring of these species, of adolescent and below, may be hunted.
Kaiwhekea are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 4 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 4 hour.
Kaiwhekea nest anywhere along the coastline or in shallow pools on coastal islands in their preferred POIs. Their nests are constructed out of kelp, branches and rocks.
Kaiwhekea females may form same sex pairs.

Physical Dimorphism
♀️ Females are slimmer than males, and have duller colors.
Suitable Subspecies include: tenui
♂️ Males are bulkier, with contrasting coloration.
Suitable Subspecies include: katiki, grandis
Physical dimorphism for Kaiwhekea is not mandatory, but individuals differing from the typical dimorphism may face difficulties during courtship.
 
Growing Up
Offspring Behavior
Kaiwhekea hatchlings, known as calves, hatch fully developed and ready to swim after their mother - but do not do so until they reach Juvenile.
Calves are born in shallow water - either along the coastline, or in shallow pools on coastal islands. From birth they watch their mother leave the tide pools to rejoin with her bale in deeper water, and wait behind in the shallows for safety.
After reaching juvenile, they make the stretch across into deeper water to meet their maternal bale.
Calves are precocial, ready to survive on their own and hunt small fish. However, calves do not begin hunting until sub-adult, and solely live on fish or shared kills from their bale until then.
Despite this, calves do not rely on their mothers for food, and chase around fish and provide for themselves wherever possible. No calf will turn down the opportunity to share in their mother's kill, though!
Calves enjoy play fighting with other calves within the bale.
Orphaned Behavior
Calves are able to survive on their own from the moment they hatch.
Orphans without visible adults in the area become skittish, hiding in shallow water, the water surface, or around rocks away - from deep water predators. They take longer to emerge into deeper water than their counterparts with parents.
Orphans may grow up to be more antisocial than most in their species.
General Behavior
Kaiwhekea are known as fast and agile swimmers, they swim near the surface, and enjoy leaping out of the water as a form of play with other Kaiwhekea.
They can be spotted basking in shallow waters or even on land for a short period of time.
With their long neck, small head, and sharp interlocking teeth, Kaiwhekea hunt small, soft-bodied prey such as fish or turtles.
They use their keen eyesight to spot prey and avoid larger predators that share the ocean, unless desperate.
Kaiwhekea are known to digest pebbles and shells to help digest the food they eat.
Kaiwhekea take a great interest in terrestrial species they encounter near the water. Some attempt to get their attention by fetching them objects from the bottom of the seafloor to present as interesting trinkets.
Social Interaction
Female Kaiwhekea are passive to their own kind, often forming loose groups up to 6 adults.
They enjoy leaping out of the water with each other, and practising organised hunts, sometimes on one another.
Though social, Kaiwhekea also enjoy their time alone, often sunbathing on beaches or swimming spread out from each other, careful not to get too close into one another's space.
Male Kaiwhekea are less tolerant of each other, viewing the other as competition, but can occasionally form friendships and small duos with other males.
These duos work together to drive away rival males during courtship and protect females.
Female Kaiwhekea that spend a lot of time together in a bale sometimes end up forming same sex pairs. Though closely bonded with each other, they may still accept courtship advances from males, and raise offspring together with their female partner.
Male Kaiwhekea do not stay with bales long-term, and slip away to find other females once their offspring reach adolescence.
Aggressive Interaction
Kaiwhekea are tolerant to their own species, and try to avoid conflict where possible - except during courtship.
Ignoring is always the first option they consider when encountering aggression from other Kaiwhekea, and males that accidentally encroach too close to another male's females will quickly slip away, aware of the offence they may cause.
Most Kaiwhekea greet each other warmly during migrations.
If a male wishes to fight another male for his females, they bite and smack against each other in the water, fighting until one male backs down.
Cross-Species Interaction
Kaiwhekea are tolerant to other species and try to avoid conflicts at all times.
When finding new species they approach them with curiosity, often leading to being attacked if they turn out to be a predator.
Kaiwhekea often swim to the bottom of the seafloor to retrieve an interesting item to present to a terrestrial species, enjoying the unusual interactions.
Kaiwhekea always flee from adult Spinosaurus and Deinosuchus.
 
Hunting Strategy
Kaiwhekea are opportunistic, intelligent and coordinated hunters.
They can hunt up to Large tier, but will prioritise unattended Leedsichthys offspring first, and then Medium tier above others, when in the area. They flee from adult Spinosaurus and Deinosuchus.
Kaiwhekea take it in turns swimming in to get bites on their prey.
 
Courtship & Parenthood
During courting season, both sexes become extremely vocal underwater. These loud calls are used to locate a possible mate and also to evaluate and select the best mate for nesting.
This loud vocalization can be divided into two categories: long-distance, and local calls.
Long-distance calls, being like a broadcast, are used to find a mate over some distance. Repeated local calls, one after the other, are considered more friendly and submissive, and employed to signal interest in a mate.
Males will court multiple females during one breeding season, if able to. If two different males happen to end up in the same area during courtship, they will usually try to drive the other one away.
Males bellow loudly, trying to scare off the other male. When all fails, they bite and spin into each other until one reaches deathscars.
These fights rarely end up in a dead male, but deep scars and bite marks are left on both.
Even if male Kaiwhekea are in bonded duos, these males still fight to maintain breeding rights with the females.

Offspring Rearing
When preparing to nest, females will head to a coastal area with shallow pools, constructing a simple structure to lay their eggs.
After all young hatch, mothers leave the shallow ponds and head out into deeper water to wait for their young to grow strong enough to join them.
Once young have made the stretch into deeper water at juvenile, they travel around the oceans nomadically, with males swimming on the outside of the bale.
Male Kaiwhekea do not participate in taking care of the offspring, but protect their selected bale until offspring are adolescent.
Once young has reached adolescent, males return to a solitary or duo lifestyle.
 
Elderly & End of Life (Optional)
When Kaiwhekea reach old age, they depart from their bale and seek deeper, hidden areas of the ocean.
They will become less vocal and sometimes even shed into darker or duller coloration.
Females that have formed a same sex bond can be found leaving a bale together.
Elderly Kaiwhekea become weak near the end of their lifespan, with most dying due to lack of strength to bring them to resurface.
Notes
Kaiwhekea flee from adult Spinosaurus and Deinosuchus.

RULE EXEMPTIONS
Kaiwhekea are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes):  15-25-35-45 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 4000
Adjusted Stats: none
 
Dynasty Realism
Dynasty Realism
 hat den Post-Titel zu KAIWHEKEA geändert — 14.06.2025 22:33
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 23:08
Preferred POIs
Bild
Kaiwhekea is not found in Gondwa.
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 03:09
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 13.06.2026 20:58
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Kaiwhekea are Medium Cathemeral Aquatic Carnivores.
Kaiwhekea can group up to 8 sub/adults, up to 6 females and 2 males, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees.
Kaiwhekea are tolerant.
Kaiwheka can have up to 3 Sub/Adults in an engagement or hunting party.
Kaiwhekea may hunt up to Large tier, but will prioritise unattended Leedsichthys offspring first, and then Medium tier above others, when in the area. Kaiwhekea may not scavenge.
Kaiwhekea flee from adult Spinosaurus and Deinosuchus.
 
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?
 
Profile to be updated and extended soon!