Tyrannotitan
    "TT", "Tyranno,” “Titan”
Tyrannotitan are nocturnal apex predators known for their brutal aggression and hunting methods - often dousing themselves entirely in the blood of their prey or rivals. They keep to same sex related pairs, usually brothers, sisters, or a mother and daughter/father and son. They can often be heard before they are seen - broadcasting loud, haunting calls throughout the night in their search for prey.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Red & CrownlessCrow
Ideas from: vvesperr, Kittyful
Photo: CrownlessCrow
Based on siberian tigers, great white sharks, speculative Tyrannotitan behaviors, and creative liberty.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond



image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 22.06.2026 21:25
Overview
Bild
Apex Nocturnal Terrestrial Carnivore
Tyrannotitan form harem bonds.
Tyrannotitan males are territorial and claim large territories, consisting of an entire POI. They allow one solitary or a bonded pair of females within their territory and permit those and any offspring they father to share kills with them.
Tyrannotitan females are nomadic, but become territorial and claim large territories when nesting. A female will drive out other ungrouped females they see within a shared male’s territory.
Tyrannotitan males have an aggressive nature towards ungrouped Tyrannotitan males and other carnivores, and a passive nature towards females.
Tyrannotitan females have an aggressive nature towards ungrouped Tyrannotitan females, tolerant towards other carnivores, and a passive nature towards males.
Tyrannotitan are not scavengers. Tyrannotitan tolerate Tiny tier scavengers at all times, and all scavengers during the day, unless woken up by them.
Tyrannotitan cannibalize albino individuals. Other mutated Tyrannotitan are tolerated.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Tyrannotitan include:
Albino, Melanistic, Piebald
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.
PROFILE SPECIFIC UNIQUE FEATURE
Tyrannotitan only exhibit blue eyes when they are permanently blinded by extensive exposure to the sun. This is not inherited, but can occur at a young age.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 2 related Sub/Adults of the same sex.
Female pairs (sisters, half-sisters, or mother/daughter) are known as a stand, and can be joined by unlimited offspring.
Male pairs (brothers, half-brothers, or father/son) are known as a sett.
A solitary male may group with one related adolescent male offspring.
Unlimited Offspring
Tyrannotitan do not adopt.

Orphans may not group together unless biologically related (at least half-siblings).
Orphans that have been nested in and are Adolescent or below may remain grouped together if abandoned by their mother, or if their mother dies.
Adult individuals of the opposite sex never group - even when nesting.
ALL Tyrannotitan that group together must log their relations in ⁠🩸・bloodline-logs before they can group. You MUST have been nested in and have proof via a nesting post to prove relations.
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 2 grouped Tyrannotitan may take part in a hunt or territory challenge.
Tyrannotitan may hunt any tier.
Tyrannotitan may form a mob of up to 3 individuals in order to hunt Argentinosaurus, but must have at least 2 present to begin a hunt.  They do not group in game to do so, but work together to bring the mighty sauropod down, and share in the kill.
Only courted Tyrannotitan (one sett and one female, or one stand and one male) may work together in a mob.
Adolescent Tyrannotitan do not assist with their parents’ hunts.
Up to 2 Adolescent Tyrannotitan may attempt to hunt up to solo Large.
✦ Defence Against Other Species
Up to 2 Tyrannotitan may work together in defence against being hunted.
If there are 2 Tyrannotitan in a sett or stand, their primary defenders will always be each other.
If there is a solitary courted pair within the same POI, and they are within LOS within 30 seconds of the hunt starting, they may defend each other.
If there is one female and a male pair, the courted male of the pair may defend her. The remaining male must move 10 bodylengths away.
Individuals who are not grouped and related, and have not courted may not defend each other.
A solitary male is expected to defend himself if he has courted a female pair.
If the father of a clutch is within LOS of an offspring being hunted while the mother is not, the father may rush to the clutch’s defense. Once the mother reaches the engagement (within 30 seconds), she may also defend with him.
Female Tyrannotitan always defend their grouped offspring of Adolescent and below from threats if they are within LOS.
Up to 2 bonded Adolescent Tyrannotitan may defend each other if attacked, but must prioritize fleeing if their parents arrive to defend them.
✦ Territory Challenges Against Other Species
Tyrannotitan males defend their territories from other species, and rush to confront other carnivorous species. This begins with a broadcast :broadcast_call: , and then three aggressive  :threaten_call: calls.
Tyrannotitan challenge out Medium and above carnivores from their territories, excluding Austroraptor at their nesting sites.
Tyrannotitan do respect the forfeits of Tyrannosaurus & Giganotosaurus - but these rivals must be seen to be fleeing the POI for Tyrannotitan to let them go. The losers can be attacked and killed if they are not fleeing -  especially if standing still, stopping to sit, sleep, eat, or drink water.
If leaving the POI, but out of stamina, Tyrannotitan rivals must continuously heart call or fear call to indicate their forfeit. They must run when they have the ability to do so.
Tyrannotitan are permitted to challenge semi-aquatics if found within their land territory.
If a Tyrannotitan male or sett lose a territory challenge against other species and are forced to leave the POI, any females nesting with them either follow, or disperse the POI without them. 
This often means being forced to leave their nesting sites behind - beginning a deep resentment within the females against the male(s) that lost the territory.
Females will only challenge non-rival Medium and above carnivores IF she or her pair is nesting. Females will challenge other female Tyrannotitan, Tyrannosaurus, Giganotosaurus or Therizinosaurus out of the POI at all times. 
If males are within LOS, they must attempt to challenge the intruding species first.
If a female loses a territory challenge, she is forced to take her whelps (if applicable) and leave the territory immediately.
 
Preferred Prey
Tyrannotitan may hunt any tier.
Tyrannotitan do not hunt adults of their own species, except if the individual is Albino. They may hunt unrelated, unattended individuals that are Adolescent or below.
If a parent arrives to defend unattended offspring, the hunt must stop, and a challenge must be issued instead. If hunting offspring, hunger must be logged and only one offspring may be hunted.
However, Tyrannotitan often have bloody and vicious battles over POIs with same sex rivals, that frequently result in death. They claim and eat the body down afterwards, and may eat from or challenge for available body downs.
Tyrannotitan will not feed from the bodies of their bonded pair in the case that they die.
Tyrannotitan cannot start a hunt on any other species if other same sex rival Tyrannotitan, Tyrannosaurus, Giganotosaurus, or Therizinosaurus are knowingly within the POI. The other same sex rival of Tyrannotitan, Tyrannosaurus or Giganotosaurus must be challenged out first. In the case of Therizinosaurus, Tyrannotitan must attempt to hunt them first if able - or challenge them out.
Tyrannotitan do not hunt Tyrannosaurus or Giganotosaurus unless Albino, deathscarred, or Adolescent and below, but may eat from their corpses.
Otherwise, Tyrannotitan always hunt Therizinosaurus, Parasaurolophus, Eotriceratops, Apatosaurus, and Barsboldia before all other prey.
Tyrannotitan may mob in groups of up to 3 to hunt Argentinosaurus, but must have at least 2 present. This typically involves a pair of one sex, and a solitary individual or a half of a pair from the other sex. They do not group during this time.
Only courted pairs will tolerate one another in a mob.
If the Argentinosaurus is successfully hunted, both pairs (if applicable) may feed from the kill at the same time, including the individual who did not take part in the hunt.
Tyrannotitan are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering adverse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 1-2 🥚﻿ per 4 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 1-4 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
You must use the bot command /rolleggs Tyrannotitan Dry/Rainy in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to determine the eggs your female lays before making your nesting post. You must link this roll inside of the nesting post. 
Tyrannotitan nest in dense foliage and rocky outcrops within their preferred POIs.
Tyrannotitan do not form unrelated same-sex pairs.

Physical Dimorphism
This profile does not have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Female Tyrannotitan, known as sows, greet other Tyrannotitan by dipping their head briefly, then raising it high and shaking their neck quietly. [:shake_emote: ]
♂️ Male Tyrannotitan, known as boars, greet other Tyrannotitan by dipping their heads low and then shaking their heads rapidly with a deep rumble. [:question_emote:]
Accurate behavioral greetings are mandatory. You may not use the incorrect greeting in order to "trick" other Tyrannotitan into believing you are the different sex. 
Tyrannotitan who do not greet at all, or use the incorrect greeting, risk being challenged out of the territory.
Tyrannotitan must begin gendered greetings at Adolescent; they use these greetings to all other Tyrannotitan they encounter. Juveniles may not use the greeting in attempt to trick others into thinking they are Adolescent.
 
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Newly hatched Tyrannotitan, known as whelps, hatch fully precocial, prepared for the rest of their lives with a full set of well-developed teeth. These teeth constantly fall out and are replaced as the whelp continues to grow, even into adulthood.
As soon as they hatch from the egg, they immediately call towards their mother, lifting their noses to brush the undersides of her chin and throat, memorizing her scent and the unique sound of her calls.
Once this initial greeting is completed, whelps find a comfortable place in the deep foliage and shrubbery to await the arrival of their siblings and half-siblings, feeding from the regurgitated meat their mother places in the nest.
Once Juvenile, whelps have fully recovered from the efforts of hatching and have grown a sizable amount to not be accidentally trampled by mother, or plucked up by predators. They begin to make more sound, testing their own voices (albeit with some voice cracks), and begin to initiate games of chase with their siblings.
Whelps become interested in exploring newly found objects with their mouths, particularly eager to chew on them: this includes everything from the chunks of meat their mothers feed them, to rocks, to their siblings, and even their own mothers (though, this is rarely tolerated).
Whelps quickly learn that chewing food is unnecessary - and while they may tear smaller chunks from food presented to them - naturally swallow their food whole.
As they continue to grow into Juvenile, they begin to express more explicit interest in their siblings and mothers, and start to form bonds. The most common bonds come from same sex individuals within the same clutch, if not with their own mother (if she is interested and has no pair).
Whelps bond with their siblings and mothers through a multitude of behaviors, the most common being “mirroring.” Tyrannotitan whelps who are interested in each other naturally copy one another’s behaviors, walking alongside one another in parallel, often with extended periods of eye contact. 
Female whelps often take part in this behavior towards their own mothers, regardless of whether or not she has a pair. These behaviors are praised, especially if the whelp copies hunting behaviors, displays of confidence, or sparring strategies.
The second most popular - and typically the most favoured among offspring - is sparring. Whelps compete with one another for dominance. Temporary alliances may form to rally against larger siblings, which quickly end with a misplaced bite, or simply a satisfying win. 
Whelps always stop fighting if their mother intervenes while they are Juvenile.
Whelps, if consistently hungry (at risk of near starvation - 10% hunger or below) and faced with a severe degree of competition for food, may attempt to kill other whelps in their clutch. This only occurs once per clutch, and stops if the mother interrupts.
As whelps near adolescence, they begin to express more natural independence, and show more preferences for specific whelps in their clutch - or their mother. They stop interacting as widely with the rest of the whelps, and often find their own places further from their mother to play and socialize with their bonded sibling.
They also begin to display proper gender greetings, by instinct and by copying the behaviors of their parents.
Sparring matches with their bonded sibling are quickly interrupted, if not joined in on.
Some whelps may begin to show possessiveness - this is most common in female whelps, but may be observed by a particularly dominant male whelp towards a more submissive male whelp.
Female whelps form stronger and often healthier bonds, with male whelps naturally preferring other males that are more submissive than them.
Additionally, male whelps may be closely observed by the father of the clutch - who maintains a distance, only peeking through foliage and behind trees until properly introduced to the whelps by the female. He naturally prefers the male whelps that show more submission, but may pick another dominant male whelp if choices are slim.
Dominant whelps are much louder and more physically assertive than other whelps in their clutch, using their bodies and tails to shove in the way of food, water, and the attentions of their mother.
Adolescent whelps begin to move away from their mothers entirely, no longer reliant on their mothers to feed them. However, if granted the opportunity to feed, or threatened, they will show affection - even if only brief - towards their mother.
The mothers of the clutches may call the offspring to them and their father(s) temporarily, in order to introduce them. This is when whelps learn and use their gendered greetings, with females mimicking their mothers, and males mimicking their fathers. 
Some Adolescent males are directly encouraged to follow their fathers. One whelp may group with their father once properly introduced, and continue to travel with him as his bonded partner.
Some Adolescent whelps disperse on their own entirely without their mother’s approval, moving into another biome in pursuit of a critter, or purely out of curiosity. Their mothers do not follow, and do not look for them once they are gone.
Adolescent whelps in pairs may defend each other if attacked, but will focus on running away if their mother arrives to defend them. Adolescent whelps in pairs may also attempt to hunt solitary Large tier and below.
As they reach Sub-Adult, Tyrannotitan often disperse on their own terms with their bonded pair - or remain with their mother or father to act as their pair. However, if whelps linger in the territory for too long, they risk being challenged out by their own siblings or parents.
With one final bellow, whelps disperse from their families with their bonded pairs or on their own.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Whelps who are born to abandoned nests grow up entirely alone, as adult Tyrannotitan do not adopt.
Male whelps often grow into more aggressive and louder adults, demanding the attention of any Tyrannotitan who come near to them. Males who grow up alone display powerful dominance - even over their own sons.
Female whelps, on the other hand, are quieter, but extremely deadly. They exhibit a deep cunning, following prey for extended distances. The bonds they form with daughters are lifelong, and only end if one or the other dies.
Orphaned Adolescent whelps may hunt and defend themselves if attacked.
Whelps who grow up alone are often more perceptive of their surroundings, and more intentional about every move and call they make.
Whelps who grow up alone often tend to be very light sleepers, and wake at the slightest of sounds.
Whelps that lose their mother - whether from her death or abandonment - usually stick together after their loss. 
These groupings are often chaotic and dangerous. With no mother to intervene in sibling-on-sibling fights, orphans frequently squabble and fight, with many falling prey to a more dominant sibling.
As a result, most orphans usually disperse from one another by the time they are Adolescent, only sticking with a same sex sibling that is closely bonded and could go on to become their partner.
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 22.06.2026 21:34
Bild
Tyrannotitan are imposing nocturnal predators that rely primarily on sound and smell to guide them.
Tyrannotitan males claim territories, which they patrol in search of meals or potential partners. Females, on the other hand, take on a more nomadic lifestyle, traveling across Gondwa and Riparia. Their loud calls echo at an impressive distance, attracting competition and interest alike.
Tyrannotitan struggle with “day blindness,” their eyes unable to adapt to the sunlight during the day. Spending too much time awake during the day causes harmful side effects to any Tyrannotitan. Repeated exposure to the light of day can cause the Tyrannotitan to become blind, displayed through their eyes turning blue.
Tyrannotitan enjoy and are drawn to the scent of blood, able to detect small trails at an impressive distance. These massive predators may even cover their hides in it as they battle or hunt, giving the predator a fearsome reputation.
Able to turn quickly and charge at a target in short bursts, Tyrannotitan take advantage of their mobility and alarming speed.
Tyrannotitan are intelligent creatures with the capacity to remember and learn from their past experiences. Even as adults, Tyrannotitan exhibit exploratory biting.
This is against new objects and experiences. Players may use the yawn emote to simulate this on other dinosaurs without beginning an engagement.
Tyrannotitan teeth are constantly regrowing and replacing themselves, as they fall out in combat with other Tyrannotitan and their prey. The eldest and most experienced of Tyrannotitan’s bodies often are riddled with the teeth of other Tyrannotitan.
During warm nights, Tyrannotitan can be found basking in shallow pools of water or along the edge of a shore. This helps them regulate their temperatures. Tyrannotitan also enjoy swimming, and take to water with no issue.
Within a bonded pair, some Tyrannotitan will rub their faces against their counterpart, acting as both a means to scratch an itch or simply to reaffirm the mutual bond between them.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Tyrannotitan - especially young Tyrannotitan - seek natural shelters when settling down to sleep, such as under trees, in caves, rock crevices, or roots.
Tyrannotitan also take short naps immediately after hunting nearby their corpse, to allow themselves to digest faster and to rejuvenate energy from what are often intense and bloody hunts.
Tyrannotitan sleep in dim, shaded places to avoid the bright light of the sun, and stretch themselves out to be the most comfortable.
Boars only host patrols of their territory if woken by something; but do not express much effort in the patrol, and will go back to sleep as soon as they find a suitable spot again, or the sun gets too bright for them.
Bild
✦ Setts
Setts consist of a pair of bonded brothers or a father and son. These pairs, despite constantly contesting one another for dominance or having an established dominant male, have an extremely strong bond.
Some males are particularly possessive over the other male in their sett, and do not tolerate their interest in their adolescent sons.
Boars initiate games of more aggressive play with the other male in their sett, running around and swinging their tail at each other’s faces and sides. Boars may also nip at each other’s bodies and tails, and at times practice courtship challenges amongst each other.
Boars do not hold grudges against each other with successful courtship, but may attempt to “correct” one another’s behaviors, especially if one has been established and more dominant than the other.
Some boars are naturally more aggressive or flippant than others, and require calmer, dominant males in order to correct their behaviors. This is particularly common amongst fathers and sons, but may be observed between brothers as well.
Boars may be observed standing alongside one another, circling each other, and mirroring each other’s behaviors in order to show dominance and to reinforce their bonds.
Boars may be observed lazily lounging in sunbeams together.
Boars patrol their territories together and defend them and each other fiercely. Boars will work together to take on any threat and any prey, and may be observed utilizing strategy to do so.
Boars typically prefer to remain close to one another, but may patrol opposite sides of the territory in search of food, potential mates, and to better survey for threats. In the cases where they are far from one another, they use unique roars and bellows to communicate and alert one another. 
Two boars in the same sett may never claim two separate territories; they will only move into different POIs together.
✦ Stands
Stands consist of a pair of bonded sisters, or a mother and daughter. These pairs are extremely well-bonded, typically forming relationships that last them entire lifetimes.
These pairs often are observed sitting in extremely close proximity to one another, rubbing their faces against each other, and softly calling to one another. They are much more vocally affectionate than their male counterparts.
Sows in stands work together to communally raise offspring. One female may even opt to take more distance from her offspring, relying on the other female to do most of the tender mothering, while she focuses on providing for herself, her bonded sow, and the combined clutches.
Sows in stands often rely on the older or more dominant female for primary decision making, but may be observed having small “conversations” about whether or not they wish to risk a hunt, challenge, or territory. If disinterested or unwilling, a female will growl her dissent and turn away - of which her pair typically always follows.
Stands are nearly always on the move, unless nesting. They patrol their temporary nesting territories with offspring in tow - but this often results in them struggling to hunt more than small critters, which causes stress in new mothers. 
When attempting to hunt, stands work together to defend their offspring. Most mothers will abandon a hunt in order to protect their offspring.
Sows mirror their bonded pairs often, resulting in them posing a unified, daunting threat in the face of prey or other carnivores. Some females may be seen acting at the same time, using unique body language cues and soft growls to signal to one another. 
Mothers particularly favor daughters who copy her every movement, and may, as their bond strengthens and time progresses, begin to mirror her daughter’s movements as well.
Sisters may have temporary disagreements at times, but this rarely ever escalates further than a few nips in the air at one another and low growls. Mothers and daughters rarely disagree.
Naturally, dominance may shift between both females within a stand, depending on the females’ ages. Mothers will eventually begin to defer to their daughters, unable to keep up as they age.
✦ Sow & Boar Interactions
Sows may be observed returning to the same territories to court the same boars throughout their lifetimes. They may recognize each other, but still must greet each other upon every reunion.
However, if either female in the stand is related to a male, they will often choose not to return to his territory, in order to allow both females to nest.
As offspring age, and as females repeatedly nest with the same males, they may allow themselves in closer proximity to the males, which males express quiet interest in.
Solitary sows and boars are particularly open to being closer to one another, to allow them to best defend one another. This also applies to solitary females with paired boars.
✦ Solitary Behavior
A solitary Tyrannotitan exudes the same confidence as any other individual, though may appear more hesitant when faced with a pair of the same sex.
Some Tyrannotitan opt to remain alone, finding it easier to rely only on themselves and securing meals without the need to share it.
Tyrannotitan who roam territories alone more frequently inspect noises and fall silent, often adapting to a quieter approach.
Boars and sows alike frequently rub their faces and necks against trees, often more so than their paired counterparts. This may serve as an intimidation tactic.
✦ Mutated Behaviors
Albino individuals are cannibalized on sight, regardless of age. They may never form a bond with other Tyrannotitan and are rejected from courtship and nesting.
Melanistic Tyrannotitan, in a similar fashion, may be more preferred for courtship than other options, as their dark scales make them harder to see while hunting. These individuals often struggle with maintaining their body temperature, and are often observed basking in water.
Bild
Tyrannotitan are primarily aggressive to other, unrelated same-sex individuals.
✦ Territory Challenges with other Tyrannotitan
When encountering another ungrouped Tyrannotitan within the same POI, all Tyrannotitan must immediately issue a greeting in order to declare one’s sex.
If they are the same sex, both Tyrannotitan will continue to posture and begin to approach one another. Males, especially young confident males, will begin to broadcast in efforts to make themselves appear as intimidating as possible.
This begins a mandatory period of circling one another; mirroring one another’s behaviors, stretching, showing one’s scars and colors, and demonstrating the gendered greeting in order to display strength. There must at least be ten seconds of circling before any challenge calls are issued. 
If one side has a pair, the younger or less dominant individual will stay directly next to their bonded companion, but will remain on the outside of the dominant individual, mimicking their behaviors.
During this stage, Tyrannotitan take the time to evaluate the risk of the battle. Tyrannotitan take several factors into account in order to determine whether or not they intend to territory challenge the other individual, such as those listed below:
Size, scarring, and age of their rivals;
Whether or not there are resources or potential mates in the POI that they are trying to claim/keep;
If they are alone, if they believe they can fare against paired individuals;
Whether or not they are acting in defense of nests or their offspring.
Younger individuals may behave more confidently and more willingly charge into combat, but older individuals take their time to examine the risks of remaining in or challenging for a territory.
Once both sides have taken the time to evaluate their options, they have multiple choices:
They may leave the territory during the initial circling phase - this is considered a forfeit, and the Tyrannotitan may not return to the territory for thirty minutes.
They may initiate a territory challenge (1 broadcast call and 3 aggressive calls) or accept the challenge after it has been issued (1 aggressive call).
They may allow the challenge to be issued, but may forfeit with a heart call, and may be escorted out of the POI by the winners. They may not return to the territory for thirty minutes.
Once a challenge is accepted, the fight is brutal and bloody, with pairs working together in order to attempt to rip bloody wounds in the sides of their opponents.
These brawls do not stop until one side forfeits or a body drops. If a body drops, a solitary Tyrannotitan may opt to stay with the body or may escort the loser out - though always returns to the body afterwards. If paired, one individual will stay with the body while the other escorts the loser out (if applicable).
If a forfeit is issued, Tyrannotitan must allow their opponents reasonable time to leave the POI. If a Tyrannotitan runs out of stamina and is unable to keep running out of the POI, they must continually heart call to indicate that they are still leaving, and run when possible. 
If a Tyrannotitan does not heart call at all, stops, drinks, or eats while in the same territory, they may be attacked.
 
✦ Tyrannotitan Uninterested in Courtship
Tyrannotitan who are uninterested in courtship, upon discovering an opposite sex individual, will begin to attempt to ignore the other individual(s), but will tolerate them in the same POI.
If courtship attempts are persistent, Tyrannotitan may issue one aggressive call in the direction of the individual in order to drive them off. These signs are quickly respected, and may at times even result in the individual who failed courtship to leave the POI entirely in search of other opportunities.
If a boar discovers a sow who is unwilling to court, he will tolerate her within his territory for the remainder of the night cycle and through the day. Upon the second night, if she is still within the territory, the boar again postures at the female in an attempt to gain interest in courtship. Should she reject him again, she must leave the POI and move on.
If the sow who rejects him a second time has offspring, the boar will follow her closely, leaving one body length between them in order to escort her and her offspring from the POI.
Should the sow not leave the POI after this, the boar is permitted to cull one of her offspring if she lingers within the territory. In this instance, the sow does not defend the offspring, taking the aggression from the boar as a sign to flee the POI.
✦ Infanticide / Culling
Both boars and sows may commit infanticide or culling of unrelated offspring they encounter. There are no hunger requirements for offspring of Juvenile or below, but the offspring must be unprotected, and without a parent present.
Adolescent Tyrannotitan are high priority prey options, and may be hunted at appropriate hunger levels. If not at appropriate hunger, they must be challenged out of the POI.
If offspring are protected, they cannot be hunted or culled.
If an infanticide or culling attempt has already begun and a parent steps into their defence, the attempt must stop and the adult Tyrannotitan must be challenged instead.
Boars that successfully take over a POI from a previous male and his nesting female have the opportunity to commit infanticide under certain circumstances. This is detailed in Courtship and Parenthood.
 
Bild
Through the night, Tyrannotitan are fearsome predators. Boars do not tolerate any Medium and above carnivores within their claimed territory and will challenge them out if they are unwilling or able to hunt them.
If these carnivores have a claimed body, Tyrannotitan must wait to challenge them out.
Tyrannotitan do not challenge out Austroraptor from their nesting sites and are tolerant of them around these sites.
Sows who are not nesting do not exhibit this behavior and are not required to challenge non-rival Apexcarnivores from the POI. Nesting sows are more likely to challenge these carnivores.
During the daytime, their energy shifts and Tyrannotitan grow tired; the heat of the day turning these tyrants into lazy creatures, unwilling to rise or expend too much energy unless loud sounds or heavy steps wake them.
Typically tolerant of Compsognathus and Rhamphorhynchus, this extends to other scavengers as well if Tyrannotitan is sleeping near its kill. If the scavenger is too noisy and alerts Tyrannotitan to it’s presence, Tyrannotitan will aggress it away from the body before going back to sleep.
Creatures such as Anodontosaurus, Peloroplites, or Pachyrhinosaurus bring confusion to Tyrannotitan during the day, drawn to the scent of potential prey and unsure when they are greeted by an aggressive rock. If these rocks lash out, Tyrannotitan whimper at the sudden smack and back away disgruntled before sleeping again.
Tyrannotitan do not challenge Austroraptor for their nesting sites, as they are not viewed as a real threat to territory or resources, and are understood to flee to water when outright threatened by a Tyrannotitan. They may, however, hunt Austroraptor. 
Tyrannotitan, particularly young Tyrannotitan, may be briefly observed curiously investigating other baby Austroraptor in nests, if not immediately corrected by the mother of either side.
✦ Giganotosaurus
Tyrannotitan have a fierce rivalry with Giganotosaurus. They refuse to share POIs with Giganotosaurus in any capacity and will immediately challenge them for their territory. If they lose the challenge, they are forced to leave the POI immediately.
Tyrannotitan may challenge Giganotosaurus if awoken by them during the day.
Tyrannotitan must attempt to challenge Giganotosaurus before hunting anything else in the POI.
Tyrannotitan may not interrupt an ongoing fight to challenge Giganotosaurus.
Tyrannotitan issue territory challenges to Giganotosaurus, even with a body down. The winner claims the POI and the body.
Tyrannotitan do not hunt Giganotosaurus unless Albino, deathscarred, or Adolescent and below, but may eat from their corpses.
✦ Tyrannosaurus
Tyrannotitan will not tolerate Tyrannosaurus within the same POI as them.
Tyrannotitan and Tyrannosaurus do not share territories more often than not, but when spotted, may be challenged out or result in a Tyrannotitan leaving the POI immediately.
Tyrannotitan do not hunt Tyrannosaurus unless Albino, deathscarred, or Adolescent and below, but may eat from their corpses.
✦ Maip
Tyrannotitan, intolerable to most carnivores, find a specific interest in Maip. The cackling and screaming of this large carnivore holds the attention of Tyrannotitan for a brief period of time, calling back to the smaller predator.
This back and forth appears as a competition and entertainment to Tyrannotitan, who attempt to drown out Maip with their own calls until either species gets bored or moves on from the game.
This creates a slightly higher tolerance for Maip and some Tyrannotitan may even allow them to remain within their territories, only aggressing them when they come too close or become obnoxious.
Tyrannotitan do not hunt Maip if other options are within LOS and rarely challenge them from the POI. They will always defend themselves and their offspring from Maip if attacked.
✦ Therizinosaurus
Tyrannotitan have a fierce rivalry with the nocturnal Therizinosaurus. These therizinosaurids are known to aggressively cull Tyrannotitan offspring, and are thusly not tolerated, especially within the territories of nesting individuals.
A Tyrannotitan must hunt a Therizinosaurus if within LOS before anything else in the POI if sufficient hunger, and must log hunger.
If not sufficiently hungry, Therizinosaurus must be challenged from the POI.
Therizinosaurus chicks may be culled if in LOS following a successful challenge, but Tyrannotitan must not leave a claimed body down to do so.
✦ Predator Reaction
Tyrannotitan are not often deterred by other carnivores that attempt to hunt them, but repel them aggressively, charging onwards and bellowing loudly. They soak themselves both in their own blood and the blood of their enemies, making a highly intimidating opponent.
Within a pair, Tyrannotitan may opt to stay close together, snarling and roaring at any predators that come close.
Up to 2 Tyrannotitan may work together in defense against being hunted. If there are 2 Tyrannotitan in a sett or stand, their primary defenders will always be each other.
If there is a solitary courted pair within the same POI (one boar and one sow), and they are within LOS of 30 seconds of the hunt starting, they may defend each other.
If there is a solitary female and a male pair, only the male who has courted her may act as her second defender.
Any individuals who are not grouped and are not related, and have not successfully courted, may not defend each other.
A solitary male is not protected by pairs of females.
Female Tyrannotitan always defend their grouped offspring of Adolescent and under from threats if they are within LOS.
If the father of a clutch is within LOS of his offspring being hunted, and is able to reach the engagement within 30 seconds of the hunt starting, he may defend them. Once the mother reaches the engagement, she may also defend with him.
Up to 2 bonded Adolescent Tyrannotitan may defend each other if attacked, but must flee if their parents arrive to defend them.
Bild
Tyrannotitan, with their serrated teeth and wide bite, prefer to tear and shred their prey, bleeding them to death.
Naturally an endurance hunter, Tyrannotitan will tear pieces from their prey and puncture their hides, pushing and pursuing fleeing prey over great distances in an attempt to secure a meal.
Tyrannotitan often have woken prey before coming across it - their loud, booming calls alerting others to its presence. Oftentimes, this means their prey is already on alert. In some instances, Tyrannotitan is lucky and undiscovered by its target. More experienced individuals may opt to ambush their prey if given the chance, creeping as close as possible before charging from their cover.
This behavior is most commonly seen near water sources, where some individuals prefer to lie in wait behind trees or bushes as they wait for unsuspecting prey to approach.
These charges are sometimes paired with bellows as they crash through the foliage, spooking their prey and causing them to panic, giving Tyrannotitan a greater opportunity to launch their attack.
Tyrannotitan may hunt any tier, but will always hunt Therizinosaurus, Parasaurolophus, Eotriceratops, Apatosaurus, and Barsboldia before all other prey.
Tyrannotitan may also mob Argentinosaurus with 2 or 3 individuals. This typically involves a pair and a courted individual.
Tyrannotitan who have not courted or are not paired may not mob Argentinosaurus together.
Once the kill has been made, all Tyrannotitan who participated in the hunt claim the body.
If challenged for this body, 2 Tyrannotitan are permitted to defend.
Tyrannotitan may not hunt healthy adult Giganotosaurus and Tyrannosaurus unless the rival is Albino, deathscarred, or aged Adolescent and below.
Albino Tyrannotitan may be hunted at any time regardless of hunger.
Tyrannotitan does not hunt other adult Tyrannotitan, but may eat from bodies that fall during a challenge.
 
Bild
✦ Courtship
Boars interested in courting will claim a territory or enter another boar’s territory in an attempt to claim the POI.
A boar who has claimed a territory will attract the attention of other Tyrannotitan with their booming calls in hopes to attract any sows in the nearby areas.
Sows interested in courting will follow the calls of other Tyrannotitan that echo through the night, often replying to them with their own calls to locate the other.
Crossing into a boar's territory, the sow will broadcast to attract the attention of the boar.
Once the two meet and exchange greetings, the boar will remain still in an area where the sow can make her approach and begin to inspect him.
The close proximity between strangers is initially stress-inducing for both Tyrannotitan, often showing this by yawning periodically.
The sow will circle the boar several times, inspecting his well-earned scars delivering occasional nips to his sides and tail to test his resilience and tolerance. A sow will do this until she is satisfied with her inspection.
During inspection, the boar will grumble softly at the sow and repeatedly lower and lift his head in deep bows, similarly to how he greeted her, to show off his strength.
Once she is finished, she will then remain in one spot, shaking off her body softly as her confidence in the interaction grows and chattering to the boar circling her as he inspects her in turn. The boar will also deliver nips as he circles her, stopping at her head once he is satisfied.
Once pleased with each other, the two issue soft, excited calls of affection before the sow leads her boar to a nesting site of her choice.
If the sow is in a stand and her pair is also interested in the chosen boar, the process is repeated before moving to select a nesting site.
✦ Setts During Courtship
When a pair of bonded boars are interested in courtship, before an inspection by the sows can occur, the boars will engage each other in a spar.
This clash between the boars is expected by any sow interested in a pair. The males turn on each other with vicious snaps and tears at each other's sides, hoping to appear as the stronger and more dominant of the two.
While appearing brutal and bloody, boars will only take each other to half health and hold no grudges after the battle.
Once the spar has ended, boars will take a few steps from each other, showing off their fresh wounds and the blood dripping from their sides.
The older or more confident sow will select the male she and her pair (if she has one and are also interested in the males) will nest with by beginning the courtship with circling.
The winner of these spars are selected based on the size and strength of the boar. He will appear more impressive to a sow if he showed no hesitation and with the blood spilled during battle covering his hide.
Only one boar within a sett may be selected for courtship at a time.
If at any point in time the sow or stand is challenged out of the POI, the boars who have courted them do not follow and the bond is severed. The boar or sett who owns the territory are freely permitted to court the winning sow or stand.
Should related offspring become orphaned, boars will aggress them out of the territory, but will not kill them.
 
✦ Sows with Offspring - New Boar(s)
If a boar that has nested with a sow is challenged from the POI by another boar (or killed), her offspring suddenly become at risk.
Boars that take over a POI soon begin broadcasting and patrolling it, keen to announce their presence to nearby sows and threaten away other rival males in the area.
As such, any offspring they encounter that are not protected by their mother may be culled by the new male.
Offspring protected by their mother cannot be culled - the mother must be postured at and allowed time to flee the POI, or to step aside if receptive to new courtship advances.
Some females experience a hormonal change after witnessing the death - or a challenge lost - of their courted male, and lose all interest in their offspring. They suddenly become receptive again to courtship, and promptly abandon their young.
Other sows retain very strong motherly instincts towards their whelps, and quickly disperse from the POI with them to avoid confrontation.
However, sows that do experience this change find themselves drawn to the new male's calls, and may even aggress their offspring away if they follow.
Should they be receptive, sows interested in re-courting with a more successful boar will step aside and abandon their young entirely, allowing the new boar the opportunity to cull any that are not quick enough to flee the POI.
The boar will not attempt to cull Adolescents, and will only chase them from the POI.
Once her offspring are abandoned and no longer in the POI - or culled by the new boar - the sow may accept courtship advances and nest again immediately, with her timer reset. If the whelps manage to flee before they can be culled, their relationship with their mother is severed permanently, and they are unable to group with her in future.
This must be noted on the offsprings’ bloodline logs that a clutch was abandoned.
If a sow retains her protective instincts towards her whelps, she opts to leave as quickly as possible. Boars that encounter sows with unrelated offspring in their territory posture at them to indicate their intentions: in response, sows always leave with their young, rather than fight the boar.
Additionally, if the boar a sow nested with leaves the POI, the sow may assume he has lost a territory challenge. She may or may not experience a hormonal trigger that prompts her to abandon her whelps.
✦ Nesting
Tyrannotitan nest in dense underbrush or rocky outcrops.
Sows will guide their newly courted boar (and his pair if he has one) to their chosen nesting site within his territory. Some sows, especially in newer terrain, may take time to inspect their surrounds and ensure they are satisfied with the location of their nest. Other sows may select the nearest location they feel is decent and begin constructing their nest.
Sows within a stand will nest with the same boar at the same time, constructing their nests close to each other in order to best protect their young. Some sows within a stand may opt not to nest alongside their pair and instead remain as a secondary guardian over the whelps.
Once her nest is created, the boar will leave the sows and resume his patrol of the territory. Boars leave a wide berth of the nesting sows and do not approach them while the sows are sat upon their nests.
Solitary boars who have courted a solitary sow may patrol at a closer range if the nesting becomes a temporary nesting alliance once offspring have hatched.
✦ Temporary Nesting Alliance
Temporary nesting alliances may not group under any circumstances.
If both the boar and sow are solitary, they temporarily form a nesting alliance. This is non-grouped, but the boar and sow may defend each other temporarily when the sow resides in the boar's territory after courtship. This is to maximize the chances of raising their young to adulthood, and ideally providing a related same-sex companion for each other. 
Males and females will not assist one another with territory challenges against other predators, including other Tyrannotitan. 
If the female is challenged out of the territory, the male of the nesting alliance may not follow, and the bond is disbanded.
Females may assist males with defending bodies she is actively eating from, or feeding her whelps with, but will move away from the body when she is done eating.
Solitary boars may defend their offspring under Sub-Adult.
Males and females will not assist one another with initiating or accepting territory challenges against other predators, including other Tyrannotitans, and will not start hunts on other species together. They may only defend each other when being hunted.
✦ Parenthood
Upon hearing the sound of shells breaking open, a mother will stick her large nose into the nest, calling to the new whelp softly. With gentle care, she identifies the new scent of her offspring, a bond immediately forming.
Sows are extremely maternal while their offspring are small. Any threats near the nest are immediately warded off and aggressed.
During their early life, boars remain at a distance, unwilling to face the temper of the protective sows. Some younger, more curious fathers may attempt to steal glances at the offspring at a distance between the trees and foliage, but never wander too close, not wishing to provoke the ire of the mother.
Once a mother notices her offspring able to steady themselves, strips of meat are offered to the whelps. Often this is an attempt to curb their need to bite and adjust to the frequent irritation in their mouths as new, larger teeth quickly begin to push the others out.
Sows often make small trips from the nest with her offspring in tow, roaming small areas in the boars territory near the nesting site to expend the boundless, newfound energy of her growing whelps.
Mothers often expect her whelps to engage each other in sparring matches and encourage the rough, and oftentimes bloody, play.
Some sows, especially younger and inexperienced will interrupt the play fighting as it starts - overwhelmed by the chaos.
More often, sows will interrupt this play if their offspring are overly wounded, to which she expects all biting to end until the wounded young are healed enough to continue.
Whelps who continually push the limits of play may even be aggressed by their own mother.
By the time her whelps are adolescent, her overprotective nature begins to fade as they begin to take more interest in a bonded sibling or their surroundings. It is around this time that a sow will introduce her offspring to the father.
The boar, finally called over by the sow, will greet his offspring, looking over the whelps and taking particular interest in any sons he may have. If he is unpaired, he may select a submissive son, chattering and bowing to him. Should the whelp take interest at this stage, the boar will take the whelp with him on his patrols and become his main protector as he grows.
Some sows may even encourage a son to move on with their fathers instead, nudging him forward with encouraging calls.
An adolescent male who is selected will group with their father at this age.
Fathers may be granted temporary tolerance around the whelps at this age, though his interactions are monitored and limited by the sows who eventually push him away for periods at a time.
While sows begin to expect independence at this age from her whelps, she will still interrupt any sparring that appears to be taken too far. Otherwise, she will ignore them, simply wishing to be out of range of any stray nipping.
A sow without a pair may take particular interest in a female whelp, paying extra attention to her daughter which often remains closest to her.
✦ Offspring Maturity
By sub-adult, if her children have not already dispersed, she will send her offspring off with a final bellow, allowing them to move on from the territory and severing the bond.
The chosen offspring of each parent will grow to be their closest bond throughout their lives.
Sub-Adults who have paired off together will begin to roam and protect each other, facing the harsh life of the Tyrannotitan.
Once all her offspring have left her, the sow herself will move on from the boars territory, again resuming her nomadic lifestyle.
✦ Adoption
Tyrannotitan do not adopt and will cull unrelated, unattended offspring of Juvenile and below.
Adolescent Tyrannotitan are regarded as potential prey.
Bild
Tyrannotitan who are more advanced in age begin to exhibit signs of slowing down– tending to completely avoid aggression with other Tyrannotitan, beginning to lose interest in courtship, and moving slower in migrations or when patrolling territory.
Older females have less tolerance for the antics of young offspring, and often abandon them entirely sooner, lacking the energy to deal with their rowdy behaviors and feed them at the same time.
Tyrannotitan often go blind with age completely, due to repeated exposure to sunlight throughout their long lives.
It is very rare that a Tyrannotitan makes it to an old age, but these are most commonly the ones that are riddled with scars, but know when to avoid conflict where one is at risk.
Tyrannotitan with a bonded family member often survive longer than those who do not.
✦ Death
Bonded pairs often die together of advanced age, curling up alongside one another on beaches. 
If one in a pair is older than the other, they may repeatedly attempt to rouse their resting companion, pacing around them anxiously and yawning.
If nothing rouses them, they eventually settle alongside their dying companion, issuing soft calls in attempt to comfort and get them to respond.
Once their companion passes, they loudly cry out their grief and confusion, standing over the body.
They may bite and lash out at the air around them, but refuse to leave the body. They may treat the body as claimed in the case of body challenges, but will not eat from it.
They will stay with the body until it is gone, staring down at it - if able. If their partner died as a result of a fight and they must leave the body, they are forced to withdraw.
Individuals who have lost their bonded pair, whether in battle, sickness, or old age, may claim the body (if able) for the purpose of defending it in a body contest, but will not eat from it.
If hunted or challenged by another carnivore, Tyrannotitan may not claim the body, and must move on.
If challenged and unwilling to fight for the body, Tyrannotitan will forfeit.
These individuals may never group again– and any bonds take a much longer time to build up to the strength of that with their former bond.
These individuals may be observed calling loudly into the night for a familiar voice that never responds.
 
Bild
Tyrannotitan must greet other Tyrannotitan with their gendered greeting and either push them out of the POI or court them before doing any other activity in the POI. Staff will assume that opposite sex Tyrannotitan groups who are in the same POI have courted. Courted pairs and individuals may not engage the same individuals within 15 minutes of the other, regardless of whether the engagement (hunt or challenge) was forfeited or won.
During and after successful courtship, male Tyrannotitan may share any kills they make within their territory with females and their offspring. They will not share kills otherwise. Females do not share their kills with males, instead prioritizing their own offspring. 
Females will bring chunks to their offspring, and will not lead offspring to the corpse.
Females do not assist males in defending a body down unless they are actively eating from it.
Female Tyrannotitan do not have to stay with bodies claimed by courted males.
Orphaned Tyrannotitan may not group with other orphans unless they were nested in to the same clutch, and abandoned by their mother, or their mother dies.
Boars may not group with sows when courting and nesting. However, they are welcome to use local chat to communicate anything as needed for nesting.
Solitary boars and solitary sows that nest together may form a temporary nesting alliance. This is not grouped in game, but they may defend one another while the female is raising the male's offspring under Sub-Adult, whilst in his territory.
When working together to bring down Argentinosaurus, Tyrannotitan may not group up with additional members and must remain in their in-game group limits.
You may group together as half siblings, full siblings, or parent and offspring. You must have been nested in and posted in the ⁠🩸・bloodline-logs channel to be able to group. This post should link the nesting post and detail relations.
Tyrannotitan may commit infanticide on any unprotected and unrelated Tyrannotitan offspring of Juvenile or below, regardless of hunger levels. Tyrannotitan offspring with their mother present cannot be culled - with the exception listed in Tyrannotitan Uninterested in Courtship.
Tyrannotitan may hunt any unrelated Adolescent Tyrannotitan that are unprotected, at appropriate hunger levels.
Tyrannotitan do not challenge Austroraptor from their nesting grounds.
Tyrannotitan only exhibit blue eyes when they are permanently blinded.
Tyrannotitan that are in a sett or stand are considered to be within a sett or stand for the purposes of defending against predators, meaning that if separated from the other individual in their sett or stand, they may not seek the protection of a solitary mate within the POI. Only their bonded pair may act in their defense at all times.
 
Bild
Tyrannotitan cannot hunt healthy adult Giganotosaurus or Tyrannosaurus - they must attempt to challenge them. However, they may hunt albinos, deathscarred, or adolescent and below individuals.
Tyrannotitan do not hunt Tyrannotitan, unless the individual is Albino, or they are unprotected offspring of Adolescent and below. If they kill them following a challenge, or find a Tyrannotitan body down, they can eat from their corpse. Tyrannotitan will not eat the bodies of their bonded pairs.
ALL Tyrannotitan that group together must log their relations in ⁠🩸・bloodline-logs before they can group. You MUST have been nested in and have proof via a nesting post to prove relations.
Tyrannotitan have mandatory behavioral greetings, with males/boars using the :question_emote: emote and females/sows using the :shake_emote: emote. Using the incorrect emote to greet is not permitted, and may result in being cannibalized. 
Males may use the :shake_emote: emote when they are not actively greeting a stranger Tyrannotitan. Females may use the :question_emote: emote when they are not actively greeting a stranger Tyrannotitan.
Tyrannotitan males may share kills with females and their offspring, but may not take from a female’s kill. 
Female Tyrannotitan do not have to stay with bodies claimed by courted males.
When committing infanticide on other Tyrannotitan, body down rules do not apply, and Tyrannotitan do not have to claim bodies dropped. This only applies to unprotected Tyrannotitan offspring of Juvenile and below.
Tyrannotitan must drive out all other Apex terrestrial carnivores from the POI, with exceptions. A maximum of 4 Tyrannotitan may co-exist in one POI, so long as it is one group of males, and one group of females. All other Tyrannotitan, Tyrannosaurus and Giganotosaurus must be driven from the POI, or the Tyrannotitan must move on themselves.
They may do this at any time of day, but should not move around the POI looking for rivals outside of their activity schedule. They may drive them out if the rivals encounter them.
RULE EXEMPTIONS
* Tyrannotitan must challenge out all other Apex terrestrial carnivores from the POI. Additionally, they do not receive a species timer on Apex terrestrial carnivores after a challenge. This may be done at any time of day. 1.4, 6.2
Tyrannotitan should not immediately try to hunt the species they have just challenged from the POI, unless the other is on deathscars. 6.5
Tyrannotitan cannot co-exist in a POI with other Apex terrestrial carnivores. They must either challenge for the right to remain in the POI, or move to a different one.
Tyrannotitan ignore body downs in order to challenge other Apex terrestrial carnivores from its territory. This includes other Tyrannotitans. If the aggressor is successful in the contest, then they claim the body down as well as the territory. This challenge is a territory challenge, not a body contest. 6.7.4
Tyrannotitan may not interrupt the hunts of other Tyrannotitan, Giganotosaurus, and Tyrannosaurus, or any other carnivore to issue a territory challenge. If unwilling to wait for the hunt to conclude, they may seek out new territory.
Tyrannotitan that cull unattended offspring of Juvenile or below may continue to cull offspring after a body drops, and do not have to claim the bodies. They do not have to be hungry in order to do so. 4.8.1 5.1.3. 
If a parent shows up to defend the offspring, Tyrannotitan females must challenge them for the right to the POI. This grants them a temporary exemption to species timers. 3.9.
Sows with offspring may court and nest with a new boar if he wins a territory challenge against the boar who previously owned the territory. The sow will ungroup from her offspring if interested in nesting again. Offspring must be culled by the male or chased from the POI before the female may nest again. 9.3.2
Tyrannotitan are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering adverse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
 
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Tyrannotitan are Apex Nocturnal Terrestrial Carnivores.
Solitary or up to 2 related Sub/Adults of the same sex. Female pairs may have unlimited offspring. Tyrannotitan do not adopt.
Tyrannotitan are aggressive to those of the same sex, and passive to those of the opposite sex.
Tyrannotitan can have up to 2 in an engagement.
Tyrannotitan can have up to 2 in a hunting party. Tyrannotitan may have up to 3 when hunting Argentinosaurus, but not in the same group. These must be courted individuals.
Tyrannotitan may hunt any tier.
Tyrannotitan form strong bonds between related same-sex individuals, and may be observed mirroring one another’s behaviors as a form of bonding.
Tyrannotitan are strong swimmers, and often swim in small ponds or in ocean water to cool off.
Tyrannotitan use their loud, echoing bellows to communicate with one another across territories, and to indicate their arrival in a new territory. Upon meeting a new Tyrannotitan, Tyrannotitan have gender based greetings in order to indicate their sex to other individuals.
Tyrannotitan have rows of sharp teeth that are used to scrape flesh off of the sides of their targets, resulting in deep wounds and hemorrhagic bleeding.
Tyrannotitan take their time to evaluate whether or not challenging other Tyrannotitan is the best decision for them, using body language, what they can see, and their behaviors to indicate whether or not they would like to run the risk of a bloody fight.
Tyrannotitan who are active during the day too often are known to be afflicted with blindness due to repeated exposure to the bright lights. This causes their eyes to turn blue.
All related Tyrannotitan are required to log their relations and nesting proof in the ⁠🩸・bloodline-logs  channel in order to group together in game.
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 22.06.2026 21:41
Profile in Under 60 Seconds - Video Series
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H3TXchvwpGw
YouTube
Dynasty Realism
Dynasty Realism: Profiles In Under 60 Seconds - Tyrannotitan
Bild
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-60-75-85 = 240
Combat Weight: 5500
Adjusted Stats:
- Health increased to 900 from 850
- increased bleed amount from bite attack
- lowered swimming stam drain
- increased Bloodsoaked stamina recovery buff from 40% to 55%
 
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?