Dilophosaurus
Dilophosaurus was a fast, agile predator that lived during the Early Jurassic period, around 193 million years ago. Recognizable by the two crests on its head, this dinosaur measured about 20 feet long. Likely hunting small to medium-sized prey, Dilophosaurus used its speed and sharp teeth to catch food. Its crests may have been used for display during courtship or social interactions, making it a distinctive and striking figure in its ecosystem.

⁨⁨
Author: Red
Photo: Foxxsong
Profile inspired by raccoons & foxes, chameleons (for color changing), and creative liberty.
⁩⁩

image.png

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 28.07.2025 00:21
Overview
Bild
Medium Cathemeral Terrestrial Carnivore
Dilophosaurus form harem bonds. These bonds strengthen with every successful nest, and groups bonded in this way often stay together for life.
Dilophosaurus are sedentary.
Dilophosaurus have a tolerant nature towards their own species, and passive nature towards other species. 
Unattended ungrouped Dilophosaurus offspring are at risk of being cannibalized. Only the dominant male in a leash cannibalizes ungrouped offspring.
Solitary Dilophosaurus may scavenge from claimed corpses. 2+ Dilophosaurus may not scavenge, and must challenge for the body. Critters and abandoned corpses may be freely eaten.
Dilophosaurus tolerate albino and melanistic individuals.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 8 Sub/Adults, comprising of a dominant breeding group of up to 5 members, and relatives of the breeding group
Unlimited Offspring
Dilophosaurus in this group do not adopt.
This group is known as a leash.

Or:

Up to 5 Sub/Adults, all the same sex, of any relation
Up to 5 Adoptees
This group is known as a mask.

Or:

1-2 Adult females
Unlimited Offspring
This group is known as a sneaky nesting group.

Dilophosaurus of Adolescent or under may form unlimited dispersal groups, but must form same-sex groups at Sub/Adult.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 5 Sub/Adult Dilophosaurus may take part in an engagement.
In a leash, the lead breeding group forms the defenders against other predators. Other adults in the group fill the gaps.
If adolescents are present, up to 3 may also assist in engagements against up to Large tier, but must attempt an individual forfeit at half health. Their numbers do not contribute to the total engagement limit, and may join in addition to the maximum number of adults.
1 Sub/Adult Dilophosaurus may hunt up to Medium tier, but prefer to scavenge.
2-4 Sub/Adult Dilophosaurus may hunt up to Large tier.
A full hunting party of 5 Sub/Adult Dilophosaurus may hunt up to solitary Apex tier, excluding sauropods and carnivores.
Dilophosaurus may not use the ability Regurgitate before a hunt. Regurgitate may only be used during an ongoing engagement, when fleeing, or after forfeiting a hunt.
All Dilophosaurus flee from Apex carnivores when hunted. 
However, if the predator catches up to a Dilophosaurus who is fleeing, any other grouped Dilophosaurus within LOS may rush to their aid.
Solo Adolescent Dilophosaurus may hunt up to Small tier, but prefer to scavenge.
When in dispersal group: 3 Adolescent Dilophosaurus may enter an engagement or hunt.
They may hunt attempt up to solo Medium tier.

Preferred Prey
Solitary Dilophosaurus may hunt up to Medium tier, but prefer to scavenge.
2-4 Dilophosaurus may hunt up to Large tier.
A full hunting party of 5 Dilophosaurus may hunt solitary Apex tier, excluding Apex sauropods and carnivores.
Dilophosaurus may hunt Apex carnivore offspring, but must flee if the parents return to defend them.
Dilophosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 28.07.2025 00:34
Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
Dilophosaurus nest in very thick undergrowth or caves big enough for them to enter. They build their nests out of reeds, roots, and branches.
Dilophosaurus may form same-sex pairs and groupings within a mask, and may adopt. Within a leash, same-sex pairs also form, but may still participate in nesting with the opposite sex. Those not willing to nest must disperse from the leash.

Physical Dimorphism
Dilophosaurus have physical dimorphism, with males slightly larger and showcasing wattles on their throats. They do not have color dimorphism, and their colors sometimes change depending on the biome they are currently in.
♀️ Female Dilophosaurus, known as vixens, are smaller.
Suitable Subspecies include: wetherilli, wetherilli (variation 1), wetherilli (variation 4), wetherilli (variation 5)
♂️ Male Dilophosaurus, known as reynards, are larger and have wattles. Some may have larger crests. 
Suitable Subspecies include: wetherilli (variation 2), wetherilli (variation 3)
Physical dimorphism for Dilophosaurus is mandatory.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 28.07.2025 16:54
Bild
Offspring Behavior
Dilophosaurus hatchlings, known as pups, hatch into the world in a warm, safe place, tucked into the safe crook of their mother alongside their siblings. Shaking the remnants of the egg from their scales, they quickly move closer to their mother, cooing and squeaking softly.
Dilophosaurus pups tend to remain immobile for a while, only sleepily wobbling up when they realise the absence of their mother or the movement of one of their siblings. They begin to move around more, meeting their half-siblings (if applicable) and other mothers shortly after mid hatchling.
Dilophosaurus pups quickly learn that crying out gets them food brought to them, and often over-do it with this behavior, overwhelming first time mothers. More experienced mothers easily tell which noise is to make noise, and which ones are genuine cries for food. 
A mother will feed her pup by regurgitating what she has recently eaten - done by depositing food into the nest - when the babies are young, as they do not quite have their sharp teeth meant to easily shred through prey. As they grow, she may bring them small critters or chunks of meat to gnaw on, until they are able to eat it fully.
At Juvenile they begin to properly socialize and play with one another, quickly learning the meaning of each call as established by their parents and by the rest of the pack. They practice each behavior each call directs, especially when commanded by their mothers, and learn quickly. Deaf pups will struggle with this, but may gradually pick up on body language.
This is also when Dilophosaurus pups begin teething. While the process is painful, they are easily soothed by chewing on things - sticks, bones, meat, or their siblings.
Dilophosaurus pups remain under the watchful gaze of their mothers at all time, or otherwise risk being nipped at and scolded as they are ushered back to the group. While the pups are curious and eager, when corrected they learn and respond quickly.
At Adolescent, Dilophosaurus pups are introduced to the dominant male of their leash - their father. While he expresses very little interest in them, they circle him eagerly, jumping over his tail and attempting to initiate play. The kind of response the pups receive depends on the male's personality - but most of the time, they are met with calm indifference.
At this time is when they meet the rest of their leash: typically older adult siblings who greet them with fondness and excitement. They are shown how to hunt with practice on critters and other siblings, and may even as they grow older be permitted to join in on an actual hunt. However, the adults in the group quickly usher them away if they become too severely injured, even to the point that they will forfeit the hunt to protect the pup’s life.
Adolescent Dilophosaurus pups are nearly entirely self-sufficient and can provide for themselves, and are encouraged to stray from their mothers to socialize with other older siblings, the core aspects of their social groupings.
From this point on, they are raised communally, with all members of the leash working together to feed, raise, and take care of them.
When Dilophosaurus pups reach sub-adult, they have two options: to remain with their leash, or to disperse in order to form their own leash and head off to the courtship grounds. This typically depends on the size of the existing Dilophosaurus group and how much interest the individual has in courtship or nesting.
Orphaned Behavior
Dilophosaurus pups who hatch alone hatch cold and lonely, weakly calling out for a mother or for siblings. Without the warmth of another Dilophosaurus, fragile hatchling pups risk dying to the cold - especially if born into the rain, without the coverage of a den or tree to hide them.
As a result, they tend to develop slower, especially in growing strong enough to stand. These pups will grow slowly and struggle with regulating their body temperature in their adulthood, as well as with maintaining a healthy weight.
Dilophosaurus pups do not begin to grow their teeth in until the Juvenile stage - which means that they struggle with eating. An orphaned pup will desperately attempt to use their claws to shred meat into chunks they can swallow.
Orphaned Dilophosaurus pups are only adopted by mask groupings if a same sex pair is present. With leashes, however, they risk being cannibalized by the dominant male.
Orphaned Dilophosaurus pups are never accepted into a leash unless they create their own. With the support of other Dilophosaurus around them, they quickly develop the social skills needed to thrive as a member of a group and gain proficiency in their hunting skills.
Bild
Dilophosaurus are a highly social and coy species. Through their hunting strategies and daily behavior, they show a good deal of intelligence. Dilophosaurus are highly coordinated with other members in their familial groupings, and willingly share kills with one another.
Dilophosaurus like to scavenge or make easy meals out of the resources that they can find - robbing other species of their kills or eating bones or carrion, and hunting critters. All hunts shared amongst Dilophosaurus are done with constant chirping and calling, both as a means to confuse their targets and communicate to their group mates. 
Excess food is buried or stored in their nests for later consumption, or to be eaten by offspring.
Dilophosaurus tend to be lazier during the day, preferring to find rocks or clearings to lay and sunbathe on. Entire leashes of Dilophosaurus can be found sleeping alongside one another or in piles on a warm rock, absorbing as much warmth as possible.
OPTIONAL: Dilophosaurus have chromatophores in their skin cells that adjust to better align with their current environment. Dilophosaurus may flare into brighter colors at the courtship grounds, drawing more attention to themselves when it comes time to court. 
Other than exclusively using these colorshifts for better camouflage, Dilophosaurus are ectothermic, meaning that they additionally change their colors to regulate their body temperatures. In the rainy season, they may shift a darker hue to absorb warmth, and in the dry season, they may shift to a lighter hue to reflect it.
Dilophosaurus have preferred biomes - two or three POIs that they travel through regularly. These POIs tend to be all clumped together. A Dilophosaurus will only ever leave these areas if exiled or going to the courtship grounds. 
Dilophosaurus like to have places within their preferred biomes where they take part in specific activities; for example, they may have a specific place (or places) where they go to hunt, drink, bathe, sunbathe, nest, and socialize within their groupings. While a leash may not stay together in one clump, the communal areas are passed down from clutch to clutch, and those within a leash easily find one another by passing through these common areas.
The largest of Dilophosaurus groupings, known as leashes, are led by a breeding group of bonded individuals. The breeding group consists of the dominant male and 4 subordinates - either males or unrelated females. 
Dominant males are extremely possessive of their females and bonded subordinate males, and will swiftly aggress or even hunt solitary rivals if they approach his leash. He readily chases off competition to ensure that his leash will not be sneakily courted behind his back.
Outside of the breeding group, other Dilophosaurus are offspring to the breeding group.
Dilophosaurus are masters of deception, and sneaky nesting is extremely common within Leash groupings. The acceptance of these illegitimate offspring depend solely on if the mother manages to court with the dominant male as well as a rival mate. This is further detailed under Courtship and Parenthood.
Masks, small groups of all same-sex individuals, can take many forms and are a bit rarer than leashes. They tend to be sibling groups, same-sex pairs or groupings, or unrelated individuals banding together to make the trip to the courtship grounds. Some individuals in masks may attempt to sneakily court individuals in existing leashes, as detailed in Courtship and Nesting.
Solitary Dilophosaurus
Solitary Dilophosaurus are dispersals, exiles from their family groupings, or orphans. Some Dilophosaurus actually prefer a solitary life, and keep to themselves, migrating throughout some favored POIs in Gondwa in search of individuals to sneakily court. 
Solitary Dilophosaurus males willingly court any female that indicates interest in him. He chooses to abandon the area shortly after to avoid detection by the dominant breeding group.
Dilophosaurus have other options of finding a social group, and travel to their courtship grounds to properly establish a breeding group, find a same sex pairing, or to temporarily group with other individuals of the same sex.
Albino & Melanistic Individuals
Albino Dilophosaurus are prone to sunburn due to their lack of pigment, and as a result are much more fragile. Without camouflage patterning, they are a liability in hunting groups and are chosen last for hunting patrols.
Melanistic Dilophosaurus have limited chromatophores and their skin changes are barely noticeable as they move between biomes. Melanistic Dilophosaurus overheat much more easily, as they are unable to utilize their chromatophores to regulate their temperature. During peak times of day, Melanistic Dilophosaurus hide within shade while the rest of their group basks in the warm sun.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Dominant males lead their groups in when it comes time to sleep; otherwise, it most commonly occurs at the hottest time of day in the Dry Season (noon) and the coldest time of day in the Rainy Season (midnight), or immediately after a successful hunt.
Vixens build decorative nests close together and lay on them to rest, socialize, and sleep. 
These nests are not protected, unless offspring are present.
Reynards in the group often rest on the outskirts, lifting their head up at any sign of movement or noise.
If offspring are present, they play in the center of these nesting structures, tussling with one another, sleeping in piles, and bickering over toys.
Dominant reynards use downtime as a form of maintaining healthy bonds with their breeding groups; if the group does not rest enough, and during this period the male does not dote on his females, they may opt to leave the group.
Dominant reynards may posture, present scavenged bones or AI corpses, hunt critters, or bring other suitable gifts in order to maintain relations with his females.
 
Bild
Dilophosaurus are social creatures, with each grouping having their own pattern of calls to communicate.
Calls vary to signify prey nearby, affection, seeking attention or to alert imminent danger approaching.
Sometimes these call patterns are taught through generations, and other times they are observed from other groups. Dilophosaurus are adaptable and learn social cues quickly.
Breeding groups, known as a leash, and consisting of a mixture of males and females, form very strong bonds with one another. This is similarly seen in same-sex pairs within masks.
Other relationships within masks - where individuals often do not share family ties and have friendships -  can become strongly bonded after spending time basking or successfully downing prey in hunts.

✦ Dominant Males
Within a leash, all members defer to the dominant male and his breeding group - but particularly his leadership. His call brings all members to attention, and he leads the leash along his chosen migratory paths, as well as directing hunting parties.
The dominant male determines when individuals are to be shunned or exiled from the group, and is the first line of defense against predators. His calls carry weight and he holds the highest respect above all group members. Those who defy him quickly leave the leash of their own accord.
If the dominant male dies, a leash will often fall into complete disarray, and dissolve completely. Those strongly bonded together may opt to remain together, and sometimes a new leash forms if a subordinate male is able to take on the new role.
This male holds the top position within the social hierarchy, and his breeding group falls second in his command. Siblings and offspring of the breeding group are the last to eat.
Many other Dilophosaurus, including his own offspring, approach him submissively crouched until he greets them. Despite the position of seniority and power that he has over the entire leash, he still may greet his favored offspring, children, and breeding group members fondly.
 
Bild
Dilophosaurus very rarely, if ever, show aggression to another Dilophosaurus within its leash or mask, unless it is a dominant reynard correcting a subordinate’s behavior. Any aggressive behavior shown by a subordinate towards another subordinate results in harsh correction by a member of the dominant breeding group.

Leash Aggression Towards Solitary Dilophosaurus
A dominant male will swiftly deliver harsh attacks and challenges to any solitary Dilophosaurus who is ungrouped with him that he sees.
With aggressive calls as a warning, he will chase them out of the territory, nipping at their ankles and tail. If the intruder does not flee, they risk being killed.
An individual in a leash who is not the dominant male may more likely alert the dominant male to the presence of the intruder, rather than challenge the Dilophosaurus themself - unless they are interested in sneaky courtship.

Infanticide
A dominant reynard will commit infanticide on a few different occasions. This often is partnered with exiling the female.
If one of his daughters has been sneakily courted, upon discovery of the pups, he will quickly cull them, and exile his daughter.
If the pup is solitary and unattended, or otherwise clearly unrelated to him, he will cull the pup.
A vixen may attempt to defend her pups from the reynard at any time, but may be faced with exile as a result.
When committing infanticide, a dominant reynard does not need to follow body down rules or abide by the 15 minute timer. He will not stop until all offspring he intends to cull are dead or have fled.
If a pup’s true parentage has been successfully hidden from the dominant male into adulthood, he will not cull the individual; instead, he will swiftly exile them.
 
Exile
A dominant reynard will exile another individual by issuing a broadcast :broadcast_call:  call directly in their face, then an aggressive call :threaten_call:. This initiates a flight response in the now-exiled Dilophosaurus.
The dominant male may spur them on with nips to their tails and flanks, but will never chase beyond the POI border, and will never kill another Dilophosaurus unless they are refusing to flee.
Other members may take part in the chasing and aggressive calls, but will never land a bite themselves, in fear of retribution from the dominant reynard.
 
Bild
Dilophosaurus only tolerate solitary Compsognathus around themselves and their food. However, if desperate hunger, they may attempt to hunt the Compsognathus - though this typically fails!

Predator Reaction
Dilophosaurus always flee from Apex carnivores when hunted. They are skittish in their presence, and do not attempt to push their luck and hunt them.
When hunted, if the Dilophosaurus group does not have enough members to hunt their attacker, the group will flee. In the event of this predator managing to catch a Dilophosaurus, or corner it - any other Dilophosaurus within the group who are within LOS may rush to their packmates aid.
If the Dilophosaurus is cornered, or the hunter is a tier which can be hunted with the current amount of group members, Dilophosaurus excitedly call to one another, reassuring each other of their presence. Dilophosaurus typically have some members as bait, with the remainder dart to land sharp bites on their hunter. 
Those acting as bait loudly hiss and posture, constantly chirping and calling to distract the hunter. 
If the carnivore gives up, Dilophosaurus can continue the hunt, as long as they are able to hunt that size tier, and are of sufficient hunger to do so in the POI.
When a group member dies while being hunted, Dilophosaurus immediately flee towards the nearest hiding place silently to watch their ally be eaten from afar. Once sufficiently hidden, they  cry out in grief and sit together for comfort.

A solitary Dilophosaurus always chooses their own life above all else, and will not take part in a hunt if they believe that the risk is too great and death likely.
 
Bild
Dilophosaurus are vocal hunters and call excessively to distract their target and encourage their groupmates.
Each grouping has their own set of calls with their own meanings. While leashes tend to be the most coordinated, masks struggle as most individuals in the group are still adapting to each individuals unique calls.
Dilophosaurus' hunting strategy is quick darts to wound their target, before fleeing out of range. As coordinated hunters, they take turns landing harsh bites or claw attacks that cause their prey to bleed. An ideal hunt is taking the opportunity when prey panics in a blind stampede - the most exciting chase for these eager predators.
While groups tend to form their own hunting strategies, the core structure of these hunts begin with an individual revealing themselves as bait and call loudly to draw the attention onto themselves.
Concealed nearby, packmates dart in and out of cover to land bites and confuse prey.
Dilophosaurus may attempt to hunt Apex carnivore offspring, but must always flee if adults come to protect it.
 
Bild
✦ Courtship Grounds 
To form, or expand a leash, individuals travel to the courtship grounds at Stego Mountain's northern pond.
Vixens signal their readiness to pair by locating a good standing place, hoping to make themselves as visible as possible. They begin to scream, letting out loud, wailing calls and lifting their faces to the sky, in the hopes of attracting an interested reynard.
Reynards flock to the calling female - sometimes multiple at a time - and observe her, cooing repeatedly to indicate they are interested.
Vixens may sometimes have multiple reynards showing interest in her at a time. In this case, she quietens and settles down, watching back and forth as the reynards battle to impress her.
﻿
Reynard Posturing
Competing reynards engage in an intense competition of posturing. They click their jaws and raise further onto their hind legs, showing off their colors, scars, and the size of their crest (❔﻿ emote). 
They shove themselves in front of other reynards. This action quickly prompts angry nips from the offended male, and sometimes escalates into a full brawl between a pair of males.
Should a pair of males fight, this battle continues until one of the pair is reduced to half health, forcing him to forfeit and make the other the victor.
The vixen always selects the victor - if another male has not wooed her successfully in the meantime!
When physical prowess fails, a skilled reynard knows that the gift of food is the best approach to win over vixens. The more impressive the critter, the better chance he has of securing her as his partner.
To indicate acceptance, vixens affectionately call at their chosen male before standing closer to his side and nuzzling him. The reynard shakes proudly for a moment before nuzzling her in return. He leads her to meet the rest of his breeding group, or taken to his preferred biome to start a brand new leash together.
﻿
✦ Same-sex courtship 
Individuals hoping to form a same sex pair will still travel to the pond at Stego Mountain.
Males or females seeking a same sex partner will place a nest down at the courtship ground, and decorate it clearly with bones and ribcages, highlighting their resourcefulness and ability to provide for their partner.
The nest owner then stands and broadcasts :broadcast_call:﻿, mimicking the behavior of vixens seeking a reynard.
Interested Dilophosaurus that locate one of these individuals will approach, cooing softly, and walk around the nest to inspect it.
Dilophosaurus that have built these nests only accept same sex partners, and aggress away any opposite sex suitors.
If happy to accept, they return the :friendly_call:﻿ affectionate call, and the new pair settle together on the bone pile, nuzzling against one another.
After this, they form a mask grouping, or integrate into an existing one, happy to adopt any orphans they come across to raise with their partner.
﻿
✦ Courtship within a leash 
Once vixens are settled into a leash grouping, courtship is initiated by them, whenever they feel ready to nest and rear offspring.
Broody vixens look for a suitable rock or higher location near the dominant reynard, and leap on top of it to begin her wailing, courtship screams.
This clear indication is obvious for the dominant male. If he wishes to nest with the female, he approaches her with affectionate calls, and sits down beside her performing spot, shaking to show his acceptance.
However - dominant males are not always interested, and may choose to reject his female's advances. This is signalled with an :threaten_call:﻿ aggressive call.
The female, while accepting of the rejection, responds sadly, :danger_call:﻿fear calling and shaking her head to soothe her own frustation.
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 28.07.2025 17:01
✦ Sneaky Courtship
Dilophosaurus sometimes attempt sneaky courtship - whether they are within a bonded leash grouping,  or a roaming dispersal. 
Some solitary individuals prefer sneaky courtship over traveling to the courtship grounds to form a leash.
Dominant males never sneaky court, and reject any advances from an ungrouped suitor.
Reynards within a mask must first disperse to be solitary before they can sneakily court vixens.

Solitary or same-sex paired vixens are the most likely to sneakily court outside of their bonded group. Typically any dispersed male is suitable to the group, however particularly daring groups attempt to win the attentions of a subordinate male within a leash - hoping their secret remains undetected. 

Initiating Sneaky Courtship
Dilophosaurus that attempt to court outside the courtship grounds, initiate what is referred to as "sneaky courtship". These pairings never form bonds, but are used as fleeting moments in order to produce offspring.
Individuals seeking to court outside their courtship grounds spend considerable time stalking other Dilophosaurus from afar, silently trailing behind individuals or groups to assess opportunities available. The ideal partner is one which is healthy, with fewer battle wounds and a louder call. When trailing behind a leash, interested individuals watch from a distance to identify which reynard is the dominant male and avoid approaching him.
When a window of opportunity appears - with the chosen Dilophosaurus successfully distanced from the rest of their group members - the interested approaches with soft affectionate calls and head bobs, gently twisting their head to flash their crests. 
If the courted Dilophosaurus is not interested, rejection is portrayed with a responding:danger_call: a fear call and fleeing from the dispersal or rushing back to their group.
If the courted Dilophosaurus  is interested, they accept the dispersal's advances with curiosity and interest, standing still and watching (❔ emote) for their next move.
The dispersal continues to call affectionately, stepping back and bobbing their head to lure their suitor to follow them away.
If the courted follows, the dispersal leads them to a resource, which can range from a pile of mushrooms, flowers or bones. If the resource is satisfactory, the courted accepts the dispersal with affectionate calls.

Females within a leash that were successfully courted by a dispersal male immediately abandon him and return to her dominant male. Her first instinct is to attempt courtship with her dominant male to trick him into believing the clutch she lays is fathered by him.
If the dominant male rejects her courtship display, the female is forced to destroy her eggs once laid, or raise them in secret as a dispersal.
Solo or same-sex female pairs disperse into a sneaky nesting group to rear their young, and chase away the male.
The dispersing male, once exiled by his new mate, quickly flees the POI in search of others. The male must share his genetics to the female via whispers or local chat before leaving the area.
Initiating Sneaky Courtship - Subordinate Males Within a Leash
Subordinate males may attempt to sneakily court females in their leash - but doing so is extremely risky. These courtships must be initiated when the dominant male is distracted, or away entirely.
The subordinate male waits until the dominant male is not in the area, and affectionately calls to his chosen female to lure her away from other leash mates.
Other females (or subordinate males) may broadcast :broadcast_call:  to call the dominant male over if they catch a pair sneakily courting.
Once in a secluded area, he continues affectionate calling, tilting and bobbing his head to flash his crests and garner her attention.
Uninterested females have two possible reactions, depending on personality. Those with a more vengeful nature may opt to broadcast :broadcast_call: and draw the attention of the dominant male - while more passive vixens simply turn around and leave to find the rest of their leashmates, ignoring the subordinate's advances.
Interested females react with curiosity and interest, standing still and watching (❔ emote) for the male's next move.
The subordinate male continues to call affectionately, and then turns to lure the female towards a resource pile. This resource pile can consist of any resource - from mushrooms, flowers, bones, etc. Satisfied females respond with an affectionate call, to seal their acceptance to the courtship.
The female then, after successful courtship, runs back to locate the dominant male in order to initiate courtship with him. This is essential to ensure that the dominant male believes the new offspring are his. Failure to do so - or rejection from him - results in the female either being forced to disperse and raise her illicit young alone, or destroy her eggs after they are laid.
The subordinate male also seeks to find the dominant male. The subordinate behaves especially submissive at this time, crouching down and cooing softly. In addition, he gathers various gifts to present to him, highlighting his obedience, and hopefully throwing the dominant male off the scent.

Caught in the act!
If caught, the dominant male will immediately attack group members caught sneakily courting outside his group. 
Frightened and caught off guard, the guilty sink to their belly and call pitifully using :danger_call: fear calls.
Depending on the dominant male's mood at the time, the guilty are either exiled on the spot (removed from group and chased out the POI) or killed. 
If the dominant male chooses to remove competition by killing the guilty, the guilty can protect themselves.
✦ Parenthood
Reynards do not take part in the raising of offspring, beyond providing food for the mother. They have no interest in their offspring until adulthood, and instead prioritize protecting the general nesting area, and taking care of their vixens and the rest of the leash.
A reynard only tolerates his breeding group nesting within a leash. If he discovers that one of his daughters has nested, he will quickly exile her, and cull all offspring.
All reynards in a leash spend their time away from the vixens during this period, with subordinate males sticking closely to the dominant male in the vixens' absence. Instead of socializing with the vixens, these reynards stalk the outside of the nest, keeping the territory safe from predators - or other Dilophosaurus.
When ready to nest, vixens set off with other vixens or on their own to find a proper nesting site. This is dense foliage, a den (preferably with multiple chambers), or other enclosed spaces. Some more established groupings usually have a regular nesting ground in their preferred biomes – in this case, they work together to maintain and fill their nests with food, in order to make it as easy as possible for their offspring to thrive.
Vixens work together to construct their own and each other's nests. This is a strong bonding activity among vixens and they show great affection to one another as a result.
If a vixen has been sneakily courted, she will often go by herself entirely, in order to avoid detection. Other vixens do not tolerate offspring of males that are not the dominant male, and will quickly alert the dominant male towards any suspicions.
Once their nesting place has been established, a vixen will lay her eggs and curl snugly around them until they hatch.
Once her hatchlings emerge from their eggs, she fondly coos at them, nuzzling them often and staying very close by. She will stay in this position with them, hissing at anything else that comes close, until her offspring are Juvenile. Then, she introduces her offspring to the other vixens and their offspring, in order to allow them to begin to form strong bonds.
Vixens parent their offspring together, often sending out females on short trips to successfully find more food. One or two of the other vixens stay with the babies to carefully watch over them while they play and explore things with their teeth.
Once the babies reach adolescent, the vixens return with them to the dominant male and any other reynards. The father still does not express much interest in the babies beyond watching them curiously, and defending their mothers fiercely from predators - and any male that may attempt to court her.
If a female is able to conceal that her pups are not related to the dominant male, they are permitted to join alongside the rest of the group. These individuals will not be culled in their adulthood.
Once the group has successfully returned to one another, and the father has met and properly assessed his offspring, the breeding group will return with the adolescent pups to the rest of the leash. Adult siblings meet the newest of the bunch with excited curiosity.
The dominant breeding group or adult siblings will assist with teaching offspring how to hunt and scavenge, taking them on traipses throughout the territory to encourage them to explore, dig, and sharpen their claws on trees and rocks.
From then on, pups are raised communally and protected communally by the entire leash, until they reach adulthood.

Same-Sex Pair Adoption
Same-sex pairs that want to adopt focus on adopting orphans they discover. The smaller the pup, the quicker they are to rush to console it, quickly huddling around it to warm it up and nuzzle it.
Once offspring are present and with the adults, they may be adopted into vanilla nests to be fed through a parent regurgitating food into the nest.
Bild
Dilophosaurus rarely make it to an elderly age, especially within their original groupings. A dominant reynard will push himself to the limit to ensure that his leash thrives, while his females slow down, grow less interested in nesting, and prefer to defer hunting to their offspring.
When it comes time for an elderly Dilophosaurus to die, the chromatophores in their scales begin to flare and flash wildly, meaning that Dilophosaurus in their brightest shades are moments away from dying as their bodies give their last hurrah.
When a dominant reynard dies, the entire leash mourns and often, broken apart without a leader. More often than not, the females in his harem mournfully stay close by his body, and pass alongside him due to their grief and heartbreak.
In some instances, especially bonded individuals opt to stay together. If at least one subordinate reynard is present in the leash, he may rise to the challenge to take over as dominant reynard, keeping the leash together.
His offspring will stay a while and call mournfully, but will eventually disperse, to carry on his legacy and to form their own leashes.
Bild
Dilophosaurus may only use Regurgitate when already engaged, fleeing from a predator or after forfeiting a hunt with a two call. It cannot be used to lower hunger to appropriate levels in order to hunt a species.
Sneaky courtship can be initiated by solitary males, solitary or same-sex paired females, and subordinate males within their leash.
Dilophosaurus may hunt other players if 75% or below hunger in the courtship grounds.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 31.01.2026 15:29
Bild
Orphans aged adolescent or younger may be cannibalized by any male dilophosaurus. 8.4
Sneaky courters within a leash may be killed and cannibalized by the dominant male if caught. 8.4
Dilophosaurus may defend against tiers they cannot hunt if caught or cornered by packmates who are in LOS. 3.2.3
Dilophosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
 
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-30-35-35 = 120 total
Combat Weight: 2400
Adjusted Stats:
⁨
- Sprint speed multiplier increased
⁩ 
Dimorphism Examples
Bild
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 02:48
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Dilophosaurus are Medium Cathermal Terrestrial Carnivores.
Dilophosaurus can group up to 8 sub/adults with unlimited offspring, known as a leash, lead by a dominant male and his breeding group. The rest of the group are the breeding group’s offspring. Separately, Dilophosaurus may group in groups up to 5 same-sex Sub/Adults. These groupings, known as a mask, may adopt up to 5 adoptees, but may not nest.
Dilophosaurus are tolerant towards other groups of Dilophosaurus. Dilophosaurus are passive towards all other species. Dominant males in leashes may attempt to cannibalize unattended ungrouped Dilophosaurus offspring.
Dilophosaurus can have up to 5 in a hunting party, with an additional 3 adolescents.
Dilophosaurus may hunt up to Medium tier when solo, Large tier when in a group of 2-4 adults, and solitary Apexes when in a group of 5 adults, excluding sauropods and carnivores. Solitary Dilophosaurus may scavenge.
Dilophosaurus flee from Apex carnivores when hunted. When hunted by other species, Dilophosaurus will attempt to flee if they do not have enough members to hunt the other species themselves.
Dilophosaurus have strongly bonded social groupings called leashes, which consist of a dominant breeding group and their offspring. The dominant male leads this group in migration and ensures that no sneaky courtship occurs.
Solitary or paired females, solitary males, and subordinate males in a leash, may attempt to sneakily court Dilophosaurus, at risk of being killed or chased out by the dominant male.
Dilophosaurus seeking to form their own leashes or same-sex pairs will travel to the northern pond at Stego Mountain, and may form mixed-sex breeding groups of up to 5 members. In breeding groups, there will always be one dominant male, with the rest being subordinate males or females.
OPTIONAL: Dilophosaurus have chromatophores in their skin that allow them to better match their environment, both in blending in and with regulating their temperatures.
 
Bild
Table of Contents
Details
Offspring Behavior
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Profile Notes
Quick View

Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?