Yutyrannus
    "Yuty"
Yutyrannus are a feathered tyrannosaurid who form either strongly bonded familial groupings, or loose groupings of unrelated individuals for socialization and courtship. Constantly singing, playing, and performing, Yutyrannus are incredibly showy, and enjoy building close bonds with the individuals around them. Yutyrannus prefer the cooler temperatures of the Rainy Season, and struggle to regulate their body temperatures in the Dry Season.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Red & Costxllo & CrownlessCrow
Includes ideas from: KanMaoMao
Photo: WinterTigris
Profile inspired by arctic foxes, snow leopards, feral cats, birds of paradise, and creative liberty.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 12.04.2026 23:59
Overview
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 13.04.2026 00:00
Large Cathemeral Terrestrial Carnivore
During the Dry Season, Yutyrannus exclusively hunt at night. However, they may take part in all other activities during the day.
Yutyrannus form temporary bonds that may develop into lifelong bonds after 5 successful nests or mutual choice.
Yutyrannus are territorial in full groups, claiming large territories consisting of an entire POI. Otherwise, they are sedentary.
Yutyrannus have a tolerant nature.
Yutyrannus are not scavengers.
Yutyrannus tolerate albino and melanistic individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Yutyrannus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in #genetics-roller to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 6 Sub/Adults, consisting of related individuals and their mates. Usually comprises parents and offspring, or siblings and their mates.
Unlimited Offspring
Up to 4 Adoptees in the Rainy Season. Yutyrannus does not adopt in the dry season.

This group is known as a clowder.

6 Sub/Adults, of any relation
Unlimited Offspring
Up to 4 Adoptees in the Rainy Season. Yutyrannus does not adopt in the dry season.

This group is known as a colony.
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 4 Yutyrannus may enter an engagement.
Yutyrannus are territorial in full groupings. Up to 4 adults may work together to keep their territory free of other carnivorous species within their POI other than Yutyrannus. If the intruders are Yutyrannus, the entire grouping (up to 6 adults) may engage.
Up to 4 Yutyrannus may group together to challenge for a body or to challenge other predators away from a den used for nesting when not a part of a full group.
Yutyrannus will challenge small tier and above carnivores away from the nesting site, if they approach with 5 adult Yutyrannus bodylengths.
Yutyrannus may hunt up to Medium tier when solo, Large tier when in a pair, and Apex tier when in a hunting party of 3 or 4.
Two adolescent individuals may assist with hunts. If a kit dies, the fight must be forfeit. Two adolescent individuals may also work together to hunt independently, but may only hunt species smaller than them without the assistance of an adult.
Yutyrannus can only use a maximum of 4 of the following buffs during an engagement: Primal Mend, Healing Call and Coagulating Call. This is a limit of 4 total for the entire party, not per individual. They can use an unlimited number of combat calls in an engagement.
One individual in the hunting party should be assigned to using heal calls. The rest may use combat calls. It is the responsibility of the individual using the heal calls to track the number of heal calls used, in group chat or otherwise.

Preferred Prey
Yutyrannus, with 3 or 4 adult individuals in their hunting party, enjoy hunting Apex carnivores such as Tyrannosaurus, Giganotosaurus, and Tyrannotitan. However, they may hunt other prey if available.
Yutyrannus may always attempt to hunt protected and unprotected offspring. Offspring that is considered Apex (protected by an Apex parent) may not be hunted without 3 adults in the hunting party.
In the dry season, Yutyrannus prefer to perform easier hunts, and will target those who are sleeping, injured, albino, or individuals of Adolescent or below first.
Yutyrannus are not cannibalistic and do not feed from the bodies of individuals they are bonded with. They do not have to claim Yutyrannus bodies, but may do so to defend their corpses.
Yutyrannus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.
 
Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season 1-5 🥚
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 1 🥚﻿
Yutyrannus must roll for the number of eggs they receive in rainy season. You must link your roll in your nesting post.
Yutyrannus  nest in dens with multiple chambers.
Once all offspring have died or reach sub-adult, Yutyrannus may court and nest again.
Yutyrannus may form same-sex pairs, but may not nest. Both same-sex and opposite sex pairs may adopt during the Rainy Season.

Physical Dimorphism
Yutyrannus do not exhibit physical dimorphism.
High t and low t individuals are not observed in this species.
♀️ A female, known as a molly, introduces herself to new individuals via crouching and heart calling.
♂️ A male, known as a tom, introduces himself to new individuals by making a chortling sound :claw_emote:, then displaying a dance :question_emote: .
Individuals may not use the incorrect greeting for their sex to trick others.
OPTIONAL: Yutyrannus shift their pelts from rainy season into dry season. During the rainy season, Yutyrannus have more contrasting colors and bright patterns on their pelt; and in the dry season, their pelts are duller in order to better blend in with their environment.
OPTIONAL DISEASE: Mange is a skin-and-feather disease commonly found in orphaned Yutyrannus, particularly those who experienced difficult or neglectful upbringings. This is indicated by using the Lack of Feathers subspecies upon developing the disease, and by using exclusively dull skins, regardless of the season. 
An individual may heal from mange with hot spring water baths and assisted grooming from other Yutyrannus, therefore allowing them to shift pelts with the season and display color on their pelt. Over time, their feathers may grow back in full, and they then may shed back out of the Lack of Feathers subspecies.
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Kits hatch nearly entirely helpless, fragile, blind, and deaf. It is essential for kits to be cleaned carefully by their mothers at this time, as going without cleaning risks a kit developing Mange- a skin and feather disease that often results in kits having a lesser feather amount, and even pulling out their own feathers as they age.
Mange is optional, and might not be accepted in every nest. Parents may opt to not allow offspring to have mange in their nesting post.
Mothers are extremely attentive to freshly hatched kits, carefully cleaning each one and regurgitating food (placing it in the nest) when needed. She spends most of her time curled around her kits, cooing and calling at them, even if they cannot hear her.
By the time that they reach juvenile, kits are no longer blind and deaf, and are able to take their first wobbly steps– frequently rushing, stumbling, and falling into their mother’s soft plumage. Learning to walk is a slow process at first for many kits, but is softly encouraged by their affectionate mother, who nuzzles them when they fall and encourages them to move.
However, once kits are on the move, and confident with regular reassurance, they begin to move quickly, darting about in the den and frequently colliding into their siblings and other objects.
Kits begin to play with one another at this stage, nipping at the air, pouncing, swiping their claws in the air and chasing one another. This play behavior is also shown towards their mothers– who coo back happily, but never nip or claw in return, wanting to avoid hurting her kits.
Kits at this time may also be introduced to other kits within the colony– whom they quickly form fast bonds with.
At about halfway through juvenile, kits are brought out into the world in order to begin migrating in the rainy season, or to begin exposure to it in the dry season. Kits take on these new adventures eagerly, running about and curiously sniffing all new things– from tiny lizards, to big rocks, and even other dinosaurs if their parents do not reign them in first.
Adolescent kits begin to show more disparity between genders, with males drifting towards their fathers and other toms and females staying close to their mothers.
Young toms begin to express interest in dancing and performance, and practice with one another to begin honing the performance that they take with them the rest of their lives. Their performances are often taught to them by their fathers, and often take inspiration from those performances.
Young mollies often assist with the nurturing of other kits within the colony or clowder, and do so eagerly. They will also continue to practice play behaviors that will assist them with courtship in their adulthood.
Kits are also taught to hunt at this stage, and work together to hunt large critters or other small prey items. Once they have successfully killed something, they will yowl, begging for their mother to come look and praise them for their success.
As kits near Sub-Adult, they become confident and independent individuals. They will split off on their own accord if there is no room for them within the group, or, if dry season is nearing, leave with their parents in order to find a suitable place to hunker down to avoid the heat.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned kits often hatch alone and abandoned, with no mother to reassure them or clean them. As a result of this stressful experience and having no one to care for them, these kits are at the most risk of developing Mange, a feather and skin disease. This is detailed in General Behavior.
Orphans must be migratory much earlier than their nested counterparts, and are much quieter. They move quickly and quietly, preferring to stay within hiding places, especially if they hear other footsteps of anything larger than them.
Being entirely alone is incredibly stressful for a kit, and has impacts on them socially and physically.
Kits who grow up orphaned may need to observe other toms in order to understand how to perform in their adulthood, and may not understand how to sing. Mollies tend to be much shyer, fleeing from flirtation rather than approaching or initiating it.
Bild
Yutyrannus are heavily plumed tyrannosaurids who roam the entirety of Gondwa. They prefer the rainy season for its more temperate or cold temperatures, and love the rain, stepping out into it and shaking their heads upwards.
In contrast, Yutyrannus prefer to stay inside dark and dim dens during the dry season, wanting to avoid the heat as much as possible. Yutyrannus will select dens that they are protective of, refusing to allow other predators, including other Yutyrannus, close.
In the dry season, in order to avoid as much of the cruel heat as possible, Yutyrannus become nocturnal hunters-- but may take part in all other behaviors during the day, including challenging for bodies.
Yutyrannus often rub themselves up against other Yutyrannus, favored dens, nesting sites and favorite objects to mark them as “theirs.” This is most frequent between mated pairs, siblings, and parents and their offspring.
Yutyrannus curl up with other Yutyrannus to preserve warmth in the rainy season, but keep space from each other in the dry season.
OPTIONAL: In the transition from rainy to dry season, Yutyrannus shift from more colorful and bright pelts that are more alluring to potential mates and better match their environment, to pelts that are duller in hue and more monotone, to assist with managing their temperature and camouflage in the drier environment.
Yutyrannus will lay in shade often, particularly along cliffsides that they may use to chase prey or escape predators.
Yutyrannus are very playful with other Yutyrannus, chasing one another’s tails or their own, hiding, and pouncing. They are very vocal, constantly calling or singing to one another.
✦ Mange (Optional Affliction)
Mange is an optional affliction for Yutyrannus that manifests as an individual having lesser feathers, and a dull colored coat. This is done by picking the Lack of Feathers subspecies, and picking a skin with very little patterning or color flares.
This affliction is also characterized by pulling out one’s own feathers out of stress.
Yutyrannus with mange may heal from this affliction by being groomed by other Yutyrannus and by taking baths in hot springs. After they heal, they may opt to color shift with the seasons like other Yutyrannus, and grow back their feathers.
Yutyrannus with mange struggle to court, as Yutyrannus base their decisions on courtship heavily upon the appearance of another individual’s feathers.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Yutyrannus are chronic nappers, and enjoy finding sunny places or even spots in the rain where they can take naps with other individuals in their group.
In the Dry Season, this is especially prominent, with hunting parties only hunting under the cooler cloak of night.
Yutyrannus take time to meticulously construct their nests, especially when it comes to regular sleeping places. Even mated pairs may build their own nests - but will at times share them together, tucked together, with their tails draped over one another’s backs and sides.
Bild
✦ Clowders
Clowders, groups of up to 6 Sub/Adults, are all related individuals, or related individuals and their lifelong bonded mates.
All closely bonded, they work together and share resources, including the room deepest in chosen dens that they stay in throughout the dry season.
The parents of the majority of the individuals present, or the most respected and well liked, lead the clowder in hunting and choice of den. They are also the only individuals allowed the privilege of nesting. If a different pair in the group nests, they are quickly shoved from the group and the den, forced to move kits out of the territory even if they are not ready to leave the nest.
All Yutyrannus in a clowder show a high degree of tolerance for the others within their group; and any individuals uncomfortable or aggressive towards another individual will quickly depart from the group, even risking the heat of dry season over being stuck with individuals they cannot stand.
Clowders will not accept other groups or individuals to enter their dens, and will quickly issue challenges for them– detailed under Aggressive Behavior.
✦ Colonies
Colonies, groups of up to 6 Sub/Adults, are individuals of any relation, typically unrelated individuals eager to socialize and court.
These groups have no social hierarchy, and are quite friendly with each other. Individuals who do not like one another will disperse.
Colonies with nesting pairs will not tolerate other groups or individuals nearby their nesting dens, and will quickly challenge and drive them out. This is detailed under Aggressive Behavior.
Colonies are the loudest and proudest Yutyrannus grouping, frequently singing, dancing, and flirting amongst each other.
✦ Meeting Yutyrannus Outside of the Group
Unless nesting or in a full group, Yutyrannus are generally tolerant of other Yutyrannus.
Yutyrannus will only allow unrelated individuals to join their groupings in the Rainy Season, if there is room for them.
In the Dry Season, clowders do not accept unrelated individuals (with the exception of already formed mates to the related individuals). Even if the group is not full, they will simply be nipped at and driven away from resting or nesting dens claimed by the group. Colonies will only accept familiar unrelated individuals. Unknown individuals will be driven away in the same manner.
In the Rainy Season, males may attempt to put on performances in order to impress potential group members. Mollies, on the other hand, approach and coo submissively, waiting for an affectionate call in return to be accepted.
If the clowder or colony opts to not allow these individuals into their group, they will turn their backs and ignore the other Yutyrannus. This individual typically picks up the sign quickly and will leave the area, in order to avoid being aggressed. 
Should the individual not leave, the grouped Yutyrannus will become irritated and warn the individual with aggressive calls before nipping in its direction. If this is still ignored, Yutyrannus will bite the individual until they flee from the group’s line of sight and will not be chased or killed.
✦ Solitary Behavior
A solitary Yutyrannus typically has a small biome or defined area they enjoy to travel through, looking for other Yutyrannus to group with, or a comfortable place to nap and preen oneself.
Solitary Yutyrannus are quieter than their grouped counterparts, understanding that without the strength of a hunting party, they run the risk of being hunted themselves. They prefer to focus their energy on ambushing smaller and weaker prey, staying close to the ground and moving completely silently.
Solitary Yutyrannus are often seen in comfortable sleeping places on rock faces and cliffsides, soaking in the sun.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Albino and melanistic individuals are not treated any differently from other individuals in the group.
Albino individuals are more likely to develop mange.
Bild
When confronted by another Yutyrannus when in a group and nesting, a Yutyrannus’s first instinct is to find a way to make themselves bigger, jumping up onto a rock or nearby object to make them taller and posturing.
With aggressive hisses, loud calls, and spitting, all Yutyrannus within a group will fiercely defend their nesting or resting den, and will refuse to let other Yutyrannus into the nest or near their offspring.
If the initial posturing and aggression do not deter the other Yutyrannus, a territory challenge begins.
In full clowders or colonies, Yutyrannus will not tolerate any other Yutyrannus in the POI. The entire group may work together in order to drive off intruders, with some opting to fall behind if there are kits in a den nearby, and the intruding group is fleeing.
This is a territory challenge in which all Sub/Adult Yutyrannus on both sides may take part in. The losing side may be escorted out loudly by all or several of the winning individuals to ensure they leave the POI, though this is not mandatory. Those escorting do not attack further.
Conflicts between groups in the dry season are more frequent and significantly more aggressive, often times launching immediately into a challenge. 
Groups will still posture at lone individuals before moving to challenge them out.
Bild
When in a full group, Yutyrannus will not tolerate any other carnivores in the POI, other than Tiny tiers. Yutyrannus enjoy and tolerate the presence of Compsognathus and Rhamphornycus, as they assist in preening and the maintaining of one’s feathers.
Yutyrannus do not tolerate any other carnivores other than Rhamphornhycus and Compsognathus near their nesting dens.
✦ Predator Reaction
When stalked by another carnivorous species, a Yutyrannus quickly respond to their stalker with aggressive calls and broadcasts - alerting the rest of its group to the presence of its hunter.
Yutyrannus who have the time to respond to a hunt will gather closely together, screeching and finding methods in order to make themselves larger and intimidate the predator away.
If they are unable to see the hunt coming, or a hunt is already initiated, a Yutyrannus’s first instinct is to bite or claw at its attacker before using its tail to shove them away and make space.
Yutyrannus in a group quickly rush to one another’s defence, with those in lifelong mated pairs defending each other the most fiercely, and at times even darting in to take strategic blows for their mate.
Yutyrannus remain in constant communication when being hunted, watching one another’s body language for indications of what angles to take and when to run.
If the fight poses too much risk to continue, a Yutyrannus group may attempt to flee; and will often split in several separate directions in order to make it more difficult for the hunter to choose a target.
Bild
Yutyrannus may hunt up to Medium tiers when solitary, Large tiers when in a pair, and Apex tiers when in a group of 3 or more. They may have up to 4 individuals in a hunting party.
When in a hunting party of 3 or 4, they prefer to hunt Tyrannosaurus, Giganotosaurus, and Tyrannotitan. This is not mandatory. 
In the Dry Season, Yutyrannus packs will target sleeping, injured, albino, or adolescent and under individuals before all other prey, not wanting to overexert themselves in a hunt.
Yutyrannus sometimes initiate their hunts via ambush– with two individuals working together to spook prey towards the remaining two members in their group– or through charging in all simultaneously, working together to bait attacks and land bites on joints and tendons.
Yutyrannus are highly strategic and careful within their hunts, and prioritize exhausting their prey and gradually chipping away at their endurance rather than an efficient kill. While young Yutyrannus take time to learn this lesson, the most experienced Yutyrannus know not to over-exert themselves.
Yutyrannus may use up to 4 heal calls throughout the duration of one engagement, applied across the entire hunting group. Typically, these heal calls are managed by one individual in the party, with exceptions made when necessary.
Bild
✦ Courtship
Dry Season:
In the Dry Season, Yutyrannus nest rarely - and only with individuals who they have already parented clutches with, producing one egg. Toms perform dances exclusively for mollies they have already paired with, too tired from the heat to perform otherwise.

Rainy Season:
Yutyrannus may opt to form colonies of unrelated individuals in order to nest and court. Pairs who have courted and nested before may choose to remain together. These groupings (especially of young adult Yutyrannus who have never courted or nested before) tend to be quite flirtatious with one another and entirely playful.
Mollies flirt with toms by gently batting him or flicking him with her tail, nuzzling up to him and darting away, or crouching and moving into his space or getting in his way. Toms always respond positively to this– unless he is not interested in the female for any reason, and in which case he will politely turn his back.
Mollies may be slightly possessive over males whom they have courted or nested with in the past towards other females, but this never escalates into a physical fight– just into an exchange of loud calls and shrieks into one another’s faces, until one submits and backs off.
Mollies flirt with males they believe to be the strongest hunters, or those with favorable feather patterning. Continuous flirting in this manner towards responsive toms typically results in temporary games of chase: in which, the molly leads the tom towards another tom.
She will then initiate flirting with the second tom, who if interested, will respond positively. The first tom will respond to this with a series of chortling grunts (claw emote) and posture at the opposing male.
If the opposing tom wishes to challenge for the rights to nest with the molly, he will issue his own grunts in return, posturing back at the other male. The molly will then step aside to watch the challenge.

Same-Sex Pairs:
Females flirt and chase with other females, and males perform for one another if interested in a same sex pairing.
✦ Dance of Toms
The Dance of Toms begins with both toms interested in a molly posturing at one another and issuing a series of chortling (the claw emote) calls three times. This draws attention to the battling toms as well as gives the molly time to find a suitable place to watch.
Toms then begin to dance, stretching out their arms, lifting their tails, moving their heads from side to side and bowing (? emote). Some males may twirl, turn, or step side to side or back and forth in order to put on a more dazzling display.
Toms will also add to their performances by using their large range of vocal calls; some high pitched and soft; others loud and screeching.
Each tom has their own performance that they put on for mollies; typically one that stays largely the same throughout their entire life, unless it sets them on a streak of failure.
At times, toms may get close to one another in an attempt to intimidate the other and throw off their dance– if one backs off, misses one of his moves, or nips the other tom, he immediately becomes less attractive to onlooking mollies.
When a molly is ready to make her decision, she will issue the chortling grunts herself. The contesting toms both issue one final display before stopping and turning to her to await her decision.
The molly approaches the tom of her choice and affectionately calls the male, nuzzling up to the tom’s cheek. He will return the gesture eagerly, and then give her another dance - which she will happily join.
Toms who have lost the dance may do so again with no disadvantage, especially for any mollies nearby who seemed to enjoy his antics.
✦ Lone Tom / Dry Season Performances
If there is only one male in the group, or there is only one male that a molly is actively interested in, a male will perform his courtship dance without any competition.
In the Dry Season, toms will only attempt to court females that they have previously courted with, and will not compete with other toms to do so.
Mollies will still flirt with toms in the same fashion she would during the rainy season to indicate readiness to nest.
The process of accepting the tom is the same as if he were dancing against another tom; she issues the chortling call and then heart calls and nuzzles him, which he returns with a final dance move.
 
✦ Nesting
Dry Season:
In the Dry Season, Yutyrannus have established dens or caves where they spend a majority of their time to avoid the heat of the day.
They will nest exclusively in these dim-lit dens, members of the group opting to spread through the chambers in an attempt to share as little bodyheat as possible.

Rainy Season:
Mollies lead wet season groupings to a den in their favored location, often one where she has nested before or where she grew up. Mollies communally make the decision of where to nest, and prefer to pick dens with multiple chambers so each individual can raise her offspring separately in their own space.
Toms will begin hunting frequently to provide the mollies and kits with plenty of food. In Clowders, all other individuals also take part in this behavior to support their dominant pair.
✦ Parenthood
Mothers are the primary caretakers of kits. They carefully, affectionately, and regularly clean the kits in order to ensure that they do not get sick, and keep them tucked close to their curled bodies in the hatchling stage in order to ensure that they stay warm as they develop their plumage and as their eyes and ears finish developing.
Fathers ensure that the entirety of the grouping is fed, taking turns to bring chunks back to their nests and mollies, or bringing mollies to a successful kill. Mothers gorge themselves and take a chunk for their offspring, to practice with feeding solid food and to ensure she has plenty to regurgitate for them when they are hungry.
Once juvenile, kits are no longer blind and fragile, and have the beginnings of their feathers. They call frequently, testing their voices, and mothers always respond, especially to a kit in need, in pain, or afraid.
Mothers use their voices to soothe their kits, with constant chirps, purrs, and coos to let the kits know where she is.
Mothers allow their kits to meet other kits in the colony at this time, but keep a constant eye on them, and scold kits who wander out of the den or start too many playfights.
Toms happily initiate games of play or dance with their kits, and take them on trips out into the surrounding area - if they are not harshly scolded for it by the nesting females!
At about halfway through Juvenile, kits are brought by their parents out into the world to finally explore. In the dry season, these trips remain contained within a POI at night. However, in the rainy season, families travel greater distances through multiple POIs. Mollies always prioritize going to locations where they can easily hide the kits during periods of rest, or while the rest of the group hunts.
Kits beyond this point are raised communally, but always prefer to stick close to their mother or a tom they are particularly bonded with.
At adolescent, kits are taught appropriate hunting behaviors on critters or other small prey - or, if resources are limited, by practising on their other parent. Fathers often take the lead on this behavior, especially for young tom kits.
Toms teach their male kits how to perform, sing, and dance for females by performing mock dances with one another and their kits.
Mollies spend a great amount of time with their kits socializing, and may even have young mollies assist with the nurturing of other, younger kits within the colony.
✦ Offspring Maturity
At Sub-Adult, kits have now developed all of the skills they need to be successful as adults. If there is room with their current grouping, they may stay. Otherwise, they disperse with their siblings or alone to find courtship opportunities themselves.
If it is close to dry season, parents with kits often disperse from a group with them in order to maintain closeness with them as the harsher dry season nears, where Yutyrannus are much less sociable.
✦ Adoption
Yutyrannus individuals or same-sex pairs only adopt if they have no kits currently, and will only do so in the rainy season. Young mollies who are broody but have not courted with a tom are often the easiest route for kits to be adopted.
A molly may have kits with an adoptee present, but cannot adopt if she already has her own kits present.
Bild
Elderly Yutyrannus become grumpier and quieter as they age, preferring to find a quiet place away from younger Yutyrannus rather than continuing to socialize. This especially applies if they have a partner who is similar in age to them.
Elderly Yutyrannus enjoy basking in sunbeams, and often fall asleep there so deeply that they do not recognize the presence of predators or prey.
Elderly Yutyrannus often go blind or deaf in their age, and require the assistance of their partner or a bonded individual to guide them in their day to day lives. Elderly Yutyrannus who are blind and deaf become incredibly stressed moving through or into areas they do not recognize.
Elderly Yutyrannus have even less of a tolerance for heat, and may entirely refuse to hunt prey larger than critters in the dry season.
Elderly Yutyrannus may stop changing their colors from the rainy season to dry season.
✦ Death
Elderly Yutyrannus who are ready to pass often do so in the comfort of one of their favored resting or nesting dens, typically isolated from the others in their clowder or colony.
Often, elderly lifelong pairbonded individuals will pass together, curled up beside one another in their dens, entirely refusing to leave one another’s side. If one of the pair passes before the other, the surviving half of the pair refuses to leave their mate’s side, even for food or water, or the calls of their family or groupmates.
If a Yutyrannus dies to a predator or prey, whether an adult or a kit, the other bonded  members in the group all erupt into ferocious wails. If able, they will rush to and claim the body, nuzzling it frantically in an attempt to wake it up. Upon realizing that nothing they do will rouse their fallen groupmate or family member, they will rest their heads nearby or on top of the body, and the entire group will go eerily quiet.
This period of eerie silence may continue for days after the loss of a bonded individual. Lifelong pairbonds will often grieve their lost mate for the rest of their lives, especially if they have shared multiple clutches.
Individuals who have lost their lifelong pairbonds may often entirely refuse to court again - but may do so after a few seasons, once the loss has settled.
Bild
Yutyrannus have different behaviors varying on season. While more sociable during rainy, Yutyrannus have a tendency to be more aggressive during the dry season.
Yutyrannus in clowders and colonies are playful towards other members of their group.
Full groups are territorial and will challenge other carnivores of small tier and above in their POI.
Groups who are nesting will challenge any small tier and above carnivore who approach within 5 Yutyrannus body lengths of the nesting site.
Yutyrannus have a preference for ambushing their prey, but this is not mandatory.
Bild
Yutyrannus become nocturnal hunters in the dry season, but may partake in all other activities during the day, including body challenges.
Yutyrannus may use a maximum of 4 healing calls throughout the course of an engagement.
Yutyrannus may only have 1 egg in dry season. This can be increased through multipliers.

RULE EXEMPTIONS
Yutyrannus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
 
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Yutyrannus are Large Cathemeral Terrestrial Carnivores. Yutyrannus become exclusively nocturnal hunters during the Dry Season, but may take part in all other activities during the day.
Yutyrannus can group up to 6 sub/adults and unlimited offspring. Yutyrannus may only adopt in the Rainy Season.
Yutyrannus are tolerant in nature.
Yutyrannus can have up to 4 in an engagement, and up to 6 individuals if taking part in a territory challenge against a different group of Yutyrannus.
Solitary Yutyrannus may hunt up to Medium tier, paired Yutyrannus may hunt up to Large tier, and 3-4 Yutyrannus may hunt up to Apex tier. Yutyrannus may not scavenge.
Yutyrannus are a highly sociable species whose behaviors vary from season to season. Yutyrannus become much lazier in the intense heat of the dry season, and flourish in the rainy season.
Yutyrannus perform courtship by initiating games of chase on one another that turn into competitions between males displaying their individual performances, which each male perfects and develops over his entire lifetime.
Yutyrannus are highly coordinated and work together to ambush or work down their prey, constantly chirping and singing for one another.
Yutyrannus choose dens to rest and nest in that they defend fiercely from other Yutyrannus and carnivores.
OPTIONAL: Yutyrannus may shift their pelts to reflect the change of the seasons, becoming more vibrant and patterned in the Rainy Season, and becoming dull in the Dry Season.
OPTIONAL AFFLICTION: Mange is a skin-and-feather disease developed by Yutyrannus who go through severe stress early in their lives. This is identified by Yutyrannus who have the Lack of Feathers subspecies and have exclusively dull colors on their pelt. This affliction may be healed by grooming from other Yutyrannus and hot spring water baths.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time: (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-40-50-70 = 180 total
Combat Weight: 3250
Adjusted Stats:
- Buff heal cooldown increased to 600 seconds
- small sprint cost stamina reduction
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 13.04.2026 00:07
Quick Links
Top
Growing up
General Behavior
Social Behaviour
Aggressive interaction
Cross-species interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?