Thalassodromeus
Thalassodromeus was a large pterosaur that lived during the Early Cretaceous period, around 110 million years ago in what is now Brazil. Known for its enormous head crest, which could be as long as its entire skull, Thalassodromeus likely used this feature for display and possibly thermoregulation. With a wingspan of around 15 feet, it was a strong flyer, likely feeding on fish and other small prey along ancient coastlines. Its name, meaning "sea runner," reflects its close association with marine environments.

⁨⁨
Author: Howl23251 & KERAS
Photo: VitalisDanhu
Profile inspired by pigeons.
⁩⁩

Copyright: Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond


image.png 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 08.12.2024 20:41
Overview
Details
Small Diurnal Aerial Carnivore
Thalassodromeus form strong pairbonds.
Thalassodromeus are nomadic.
Thalassodromeus have a passive nature.
Thalassodromeus may scavenge from claimed corpses at their own risk, even in great numbers.
Thalassodromeus shun albino and melanistic individuals.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Unlimited Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a flock.

Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Unlimited Thalassodromeus may enter an engagement or hunt.
Thalassodromeus may attempt to scavenge from any corpse at their own risk, even in great numbers.
Thalassodromeus may hunt up to Medium tier healthy individuals.
They may also hunt any hatchling or juvenile that has no adult within 2 body lengths. 
They may also hunt any dinosaur on deathscars.
Thalassodromeus flee from Hatzegopteryx, Quetzalcoatlus and Tropeognathus.
Thalassodromeus do not tolerate scavengers.
Thalassodromeus do not hunt others of their species, but will readily consume the body of a fallen groupmate.
Thalassodromeus may use water to their advantage. They can attack in water, and use water to evade their attackers.
Adolescent Thalassodromeus can assist with their parents’ hunts.
Solo Adolescent Thalassodromeus may attempt to hunt up to Tiny tier.
In a group with no adults present: Unlimited Adolescent Thalassodromeus may enter an engagement or hunt.
They may attempt to hunt up to Small tier.

Preferred Prey/Diet
Thalassodromeus primarily exist on a diet of freshwater fish, which they hunt themselves from rivers, lakes and streams further in land.
In addition, Thalassodromeus may hunt up to Medium tier healthy individuals.
They may also hunt any hatchling or juvenile that has no adult within 2 body lengths.
They may also hunt any dinosaur on deathscars.
However, being highly opportunistic, Thalassodromeus prefer not to hunt at all unless no other food sources are available.
Thalassodromeus will opt to scavenge from any claimed corpse when possible, regardless of their number grouped in game. Scavenging from corpses can be risky and Thalassodromeus will not fight back if attacked, opting instead to simply fly away.
Thalassodromeus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 1 hour.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 1 🥚﻿ per 2 hours.
Thalassodromeus  nest communally in Big Quill Lake, preferring to have their nests close by to other pairs in this region for mutual protection. The small island in the middle of the lake is a prime location. Their nests are built out of branches and reeds.

Physical Dimorphism
Both sexes have brightly colored crests and bodies, though younger adults, sickly individuals or those that are more submissive tend to be duller in comparison to the ‘dominant’, healthier adults. The brighter the crest and body, the healthier the individual is!
♀️ Females have shorter and more rounded crests than males. 
Suitable subspecies include: robustus
♂️ Males have bigger crests than females.
Suitable subspecies include: sethi, cuneumi
Thalassodromeus dimorphism is not mandatory, but those not conforming to the dimorphism may struggle to find a mate.
 
Growing Up
Offspring Behavior
Once hatched, Thalassodromeus chicks begin exhibiting a behavior they use for the rest of their life: becoming very noisy!
Hatchlings start chirping for food just as soon as they have hatched, with the loudest and most pushy of chicks tending to be the ones that get fed first by their flustered parents.
Hatchlings remain firmly at the nest their parents built for them and so do not fly at this stage. This means that a hatchling that accidentally falls from the nest will be stuck grounded, and must maintain its noisy stance to lure its parents into feeding it from a different location.
Hatchlings that struggle to match the noise and bolshy behavior of their siblings may often find themselves falling behind quite quickly - sometimes resulting in starvation the longer a case goes on.
At juvenile, chicks begin stretching their wings and start trying to take off from their nesting site. Their initial flights are bumpy at first - and it is common to see poor hatchlings falling from a great height if they catch a gust of wind improperly.
Quickly, though, chicks manage to learn the art of flying and take to hopping and gliding between the different rocks of their nesting grounds. They spend their time nosily poking their beaks into other nests and chicks in the area, much to their parents dismay.
At adolescence, the flock resumes its nomadic lifestyle. Chicks are well versed in flying at this stage and the entire group leave their nesting grounds, flying in formation as they look for a new place to feed and settle.
Offspring begin copying adult behavior at this time - watching as adults dive into the water to grasp fish to eat, and even divebombing unprotected offspring of other species. These skills are important to young Thalassodromeus, who rely on them as they grow to survive.
At Sub-Adult, Thalassodromeus are essentially considered fully fledged members of the flock. They will stay within their birth flock but may stray further than their relatives, in the hopes of finding a suitable mate of their own.

Orphaned Behavior
Orphans sadly lack parental influences and so - despite their initially noisy state - once they realise an adult will not be coming to provide for them, they are forced to develop quicker than they normally would.
This results in orphaned Thalassodromeus attempting flight from a much younger age. Though poor fliers at first - they readily adapt as their muscles strengthen, and quickly become self-sufficient where possible.
As Thalassodromeus do adopt, orphans instinctively try to find others of their species in the hopes of being nurtured by another.
Their highest chance of success for this is to find a same sex pair - but even if they fail to find surrogate parents, Thalassodromeus orphans will usually be allowed to join an existing flock and stay nearby for mutual company.
Thalassodromeus orphans quickly learn how to fish and instinctively dive into the water to retrieve whatever they can catch. This skill appears to come naturally to Thalassodromeus - as even those without tutors swiftly become adept at fishing.
General Behavior
Though appearing somewhat dimwitted with their playful antics, Thalassodromeus are actually intelligent pterosaurs, capable of recognizing their own reflections in water or mirrored surfaces, and memorizing successful routes taken to find potential prey.
Flocks are mostly nomadic, moving to a new spot every morning if they so choose. Thalassodromeus can be found deep in land at Gondwa most often traveling along waterways such as rivers, and frequenting bigger lakes and freshwater sources.
While migrating, Thalassodromeus fly close to each other, usually with the oldest individuals positioned near the front of the flock, guiding the others on where to go.
Thalassodromeus are incredibly vocal during the day. Their seemingly endless chatter can be provoked by anything - movement or sight of other dinosaurs often springs a flock into relentless chatter.
At night, their noisy behavior subsides mostly - though individuals may still make the odd chattery remark as they drift in and out of sleep.
As they have poor night vision, Thalassodromeus always choose to find a place to perch before nightfall, with flocks gathering together on one ledge or a series of ledges nearby.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Thalassodromeus struggle with their vision at night, often resulting in crash collisions and even death. As a result, Thalassodromeus prefer not to fly at night.
Thalassodromeus take lots of short naps but spend the rest of the time preening, socializing with their flock, and traveling across the ground to hunt critters and fish.
Thalassodromeus may be seen communally roosting on cliffsides and on tree tops, sleeping close to those closest to them.
 
Social Interaction
Thalassodromeus are somewhat selfish creatures who gather together in large groups, called flocks.
There is no overall pecking order with Thalassodromeus - individuals tend to pair off into mated pairs, and keep their select few friends and relatives closest to them.
Thalassodromeus pair deeply with another individual - usually opposite sex, but same sex pairings also form - and prefer to spend all of their time with them.
Along the way, they collect an assortment of friends. Thalassodromeus are quite standoffish with others, so they tend to keep close friends to another pair or two at most, but once bonded and having nested or raised young alongside each other, their bonds deepen, with multiple friendship pairs roosting close together and showing each other affection.
Offspring is readily welcomed and shown affection by parents - but once they reach adulthood, Thalassodromeus pairs sometimes end up preferring the company of their partner and friendships - resulting in them even driving offspring away from their perch when the flock settles to rest, in favor of their friends.
Thalassodromeus group together for mutual protection and general company first and foremost. No Thalassodromeus wants to be alone long term, and even those without a pairbond or friendships instinctively start to long for company and warm up to other strangers.
Typically, most Thalassodromeus are quite docile and social with others - but are prone to holding grudges. If another Thalassodromeus offends another in some way, it can take quite some time for them to warm back up to each other. In extreme cases, individuals can remain cold towards one another indefinitely.
This is most commonly seen when former partners are caught nesting with others. Both the new mate and the former partner will be ignored by the original Thalassodromeus, and any future offspring they produce are chased away from its personal space.
 
Aggressive Interaction
Fights and squabbles are much more likely with younger individuals in a flock, with older adults in established pairbonds and friendships tending to mellow with age.
These squabbles, however, rarely go further than angry screeching and pecking - though on very rare occasions an individual might be particularly vicious.
In the event blood does get drawn, others related to the squabbling pair (or friends) may seek to intervene and prevent a fight, while other Thalassodromeus simply move away from the commotion.
Thalassodromeus are only inherently aggressive towards one another when it comes to nesting. Although pairs will nest close together and in the same region, Thalassodromeus will not tolerate stranger pairs to nest within 2 body lengths of them, and will aggressively call out for the space. 
Should the other pair not react to their calls, they will attack with vicious pecks and aerial moves that only stop when one individual reaches half health - thus losing the battle for their pair, and forcing them to move on.
If a nest is already placed at this time, the winning pair will then destroy it, prioritizing the space for their own nest.
Pairs that have developed friendship bonds with the nesting pair will always be permitted to nest close to them, and aggression is never shown. However, friendships take a long time to forge between pairs.
Thalassodromeus shun albino and melanistic individuals from their flock. Their unusual coloration - and sickly appearance, in terms of albino - alarms Thalassodromeus, who perceive them as a threat that could draw in unnecessary attention from predators.
Sadly, this means albino and melanistics get chased away from a group. Shunning begins with ignoring firstly, and then turning their backs on individuals when approached.
Eventually, this escalates into chasing them away from food, and eventually attacking them until they leave the POI.
Albinos and melanistics even exhibit this behavior to others of their kind, meaning all albinos and melanistics are sadly forced to live a life of solitude.
 
Cross-Species Interaction
Thalassodromeus innately prefer their own kind before any others, but are quick to comment on and harass other dinosaurs, particularly if a Thalassodromeus flock is in high numbers.
Brightly colored individuals of other species may be followed for quite some time by Thalassodromeus. Thalassodromeus may get in the space of and joyfully screech at these species, for what seems to be their own interest.
Thalassodromeus flocks often trail behind carnivores - especially Large and Apex tier - so that they may attempt to scavenge from their kills.
However, they are quick to disperse if met with aggression, preferring not to push their luck and risk death.
Hatzegopteryx and Quetzalcoatlus cause Thalassodromeus to scatter, shrieking and screeching loudly. If a flock of Thalassodromeus have chicks, the flock will instead direct this into launching a series of attacks against the invader, in attempt to save their hatchlings from the would be predators.
Tropeognathus is another species Thalassodromeus fear. They stick to inland freshwater sources so rarely come across Tropeognathus - but if these two species manage to cross paths, the numbers of each sides depends on the reaction.
If the Thalassodromeus flock outnumbers or equals the Tropeognathus, they will work together to instinctively harass and bully the Tropeognathus out of the POI. However, if one member gets to deathscars and is forced to forfeit, the entire flock will flee with them.
If the Tropeognathus instead outnumbers the Thalassodromeus flock, the Thalassodromeus will flee the POI, preferring to avoid conflict.
Rhamphorhynchus are often bullied off their perches or food if spotted. In addition, they serve as a tasty snack, so are a favorite for Thalassodromeus to hunt.
Thalassodromeus and Torvosaurus
Torvosaurus form an active relationship with Thalassodromeus. These pterosaurs are valued for their scouting abilities, often bonding with specific Torvosaurus packs or groups. In exchange for being allowed to scavenge from all Torvosaurus kills, Thalassodromeus act as territorial sentinels. They alert their bonded Torvosaurus to the presence of rival Torvosaurus, helping them maintain territorial dominance in a POI over other packs.
Notably, Thalassodromeus avoid signaling the presence of potential prey, as this could disrupt a hunt and scupper both species' chance of a meal. Instead, their focus remains on warning against rival Torvosaurus.
Torvosaurus that form these bonds with Thalassodromeus demonstrate remarkable tolerance, allowing their allied Thalassodromeus to approach closely even during rest times. While unknown Thalassodromeus may face aggression, those that prove their usefulness are granted significant acceptance, and often choose to follow these Torvosaurus packs around.
 
Hunting Strategy
Thalassodromeus is highly opportunistic, and prefers to hunt only as a last resort. Preferably, Thalassodromeus plucks fish from rivers and nearby freshwater sources, or otherwise seeks to scavenge kills from other predators - albeit at their own risk.
However, if the opportunity arises, unlimited Thalassodromeus may work together to hunt select prey. For healthy prey, they may only hunt up to Medium tier, but may try their luck with any tier of hatchling or juvenile, and any dinosaur already on death scars.
Their hunting tactics are generally uncoordinated and messy - with all individuals repeatedly divebombing the prey, often resulting in accidental friendly fire.
Though they do not hunt others of their species - Thalassodromeus bodies that drop will still be readily consumed. These pterosaurs are not wasteful, and even pairbonds or parents will feed on their former loved one's bodies.
Courtship & Parenthood
Thalassodromeus that have not yet found a mated pair and desire to court will travel away from their normal flock, and travel to the mountainous area in Whistling Columns, a universal courting ground for Thalassodromeus seeking out a mate.
Once they have grouped there and there are other Thalassodromeus within their sights, males will find a good spot to perch on, and begin a series of loud screams to lure females towards him.
From his spot, the screeching and squawking noises are accompanied by a dance, where the male will twist and turn from his perch, spreading his wings and bobbing his head to advertise his stamina, size and health. The flashier the male is, the more likely it is his performance will be successful, as even the weakest of dances can be overlooked if a male has particularly attractive colors.
Interested females will watch from above, gliding through the air so that they may get a better view of all males. If a female is especially enamored by a male, she will fly down to settle beside him, chirping affectionately towards him. If he accepts, he will stop his dance and they will groom each other before flying off. If he does not, however, the female will be rudely pecked, and the male resumes his courtship performance.
Same sex pairs still act out the same courtship rituals - though more submissive males tend to act as the interested female partner, and more dominant females put on the courtship display for other females.
Even pairs that have been paired together before will still travel to this region before nesting and initiate this courting behavior. The only difference is the female will usually sit beside the male from the start, and the male's courtship dance will be much more brief.
On rare occasions, especially if a clutch has been unsuccessful more than once, a male may reject his female, or a female may fly away and settle to pair with another male.
In these instances, the rejected partner is often left fairly hurt by this experience, and may end up ignoring and shunning their former partner and new mate.
Once pairs have been settled, Thalassodromeus will fly together to find a branch each in Dried Lake. Collecting these first two branches are symbolic to the pairing, and are used by both individuals to construct their nest.
Even same sex pairs will still construct a nest, and follow the typical route to Dried Lake to collect branches.
Branches secured by both partners, they travel on to Big Quill Lake to find a suitable place together to nest. Thalassodromeus only nest in this region, and usually opt for somewhere on the island in the middle of the lake.
Pairs opt to nest reasonably close by to other pairs, but must take care not to get too close to comfort. Nesting within 2 body lengths of another pair can provoke a battle that will result in one of the pairs being forced on from the nesting spot.
Pairs that have formed friendships with other pairs, however, deliberately seek to place their nests as close together as possible, enjoying the closeness between the pairs.
Pairs take it in turn to leave the nest and hunt or fish for food. They don't bring back food for their partner, and instead focus on being as quick as possible so that the other can switch with them on their return.
Opposite sex pairs rarely adopt, but same sex pairs readily welcome orphans to raise. 
In cases of extreme closeness between friendship pairs, an opposite sex pair may opt to donate one of their eggs to the same sex pair to hatch as their own. This is only ever one egg, and only to those they have close friends with.
However, once chicks hatch, both parents fly back and forth in what seems to be a constant need to ferry food back to their very loud offspring.
The louder the offspring, the better the chances the hatchling has of being fed. Parents always feed their noisiest chicks first, and seem to almost neglect the more subdued chicks they have in the nest.
Chicks that fall from the nest before juvenile may still be cared for by parents if the parents can hear it, and it doesn't get disturbed by other dinosaurs.
Parents encourage offspring to begin flying once they reach juvenile, and will nudge and chirp at their children to tempt them into the air.
Once their offspring reach adolescence, the flock will take to the skies and leave the nesting grounds, and resume their nomadic lifestyle.
Parents continue providing their offspring with food until they reach Sub-Adult. After which, their offspring are permitted to stay within the flock, but parents may prefer to go back to indulging in their friendships with other pairs, rather than showing lots of affection to their newly adult offspring.
Elderly & End of Life (Optional)
Elderly Thalassodromeus don't typically show too many signs of old age, except a rapidly declining fertility. Their clutches become much smaller, with just 1 egg becoming quite common the older a Thalassodromeus gets.
In addition to this, their urge to nest often fades. Though they still make the effort to travel to their courting grounds and construct a nest, more often than not, elderly Thalassodromeus end up laying little to no eggs, and just enjoy spending time with their partner in the comfort of their constructed nest.
Thalassodromeus do not really mourn their fallen and will always opt to eat from the bodies of any member of the flock that passes. They are opportunistic and will not seek to waste fresh meat.
However, certain individuals that have forged particularly strong bonds - either with their partner, a relative, or simply a friendship pair - may be much quieter after they pass away, often going two to three full day and night cycles before they opt to chatter again as normal.
Notes
Unlimited numbers of Thalassodromeus may attempt to scavenge from other predator's kills at their own risk. If attacked, they must move on from the body and not attempt to scavenge from it again.
Albinos and melanistics can never form pairbonds.
When an opposite sex pair donates one of their eggs to a same sex pair, the nesting post must have one egg deducted. A second nesting post must be posted for the donated egg, with the biological parents reacting to it, but specifying that the egg has been donated to a same sex pair nearby.
Chicks born into this situation know no difference, and readily accept their same sex parents as if they were their biological parents.
Thalassodromeus may enter water in an effort to escape an engagement.
Thalassodromeus may only hunt other players if 35% or below hunger in the courtship grounds. They may hunt at 75% hunger in the nesting grounds.


RULE EXEMPTIONS
Thalassodromeus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes):  10-20-30-30 = 90 total
Combat Weight: 2100
Adjusted Stats:
- Stamina flight costs reduced 
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 21:56
Preferred POI
Bild
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 02:31
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Thalassodromeus are Small Diurnal Aerial Carnivores.
Thalassodromeus can group as unlimited sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees. Opposite-sex pairs only rarely adopt, while same-sex pairs often adopt orphans to raise as their own. Orphans without parents are still tolerated within the group. This group is known as a flock.
Thalassodromeus are passive.
Thalassodromeus can have unlimited individuals in an engagement, but only defends its pair and offspring under sub-adult. Thalassodromeus can have unlimited individuals in a hunting party.
Thalassodromeus may hunt up to Medium tier, but prefer not to unless there is no other option. Thalassodromeus may scavenge. Thalassodromeus flees from Hatzegopteryx, Quetzalcoatlus & Tropeognathus in some circumstances.
Thalassodromeus live in large groups, known as flocks, and spend their time traveling inland along freshwater sources; such as rivers, lakes and ponds.
Thalassodromeus have poor eyesight in the dark, and always stop to roost somewhere for the night.
Thalassodromeus form strong pairbonds with others and prefer to choose to nest with the same partner each season. However, Thalassodromeus can sometimes opt to nest with another individual - dissolving their former pairbond, and provoking a very jealous and sulky response from their previous partner.
Thalassodromeus court communally in the mountainous region of Whistling Columns, with males performing a display to attract females, before pairs form and travel on to Dried Lake. In this region, the pair will select a branch each to build their nest with, before traveling on to Big Quill Lake, where they nest in large numbers.
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Preferred POIs
Return to directory?
Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Thalassodromeus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

This will be formatted in the correct place when the updated profile releases!