Tylosaurus
    "Ty", "Tylo"
Tylosaurus are nomadic aquatic carnivores that form matrilineal groupings, with solitary and paired males being much more aggressive than internally peaceful matrilines. Matrilines may come together and form pods - larger groups of Tylosaurus that travel together and court. Tylosaurus are doting mothers, and protect their offspring fiercely.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Red, Vesper
Photo: Kapture_Kat
Profile inspired by orcas, leopard seals, and creative liberty.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

 
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 23:28
Overview
Bild
Apex Cathemeral Aquatic Carnivore
Tylosaurus form temporary bonds, and males may court with multiple females.
Tylosaurus are nomadic.
Tylosaurus have a(n) aggressive nature.
Tylosaurus are not scavengers.
Tylosaurus tolerate mutated individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Tylosaurus include:
Albino, Melanistic
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 6 Sub/Adults, all related; consisting of a mother, her adult children, and/or her adult grandchildren.
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees

This group is known as a matriline.
Bloodlines are required to group as a part of a matriline. Offspring must take the name of their mother's bloodline. These bloodlines must be logged in  ⁠🩸・bloodline-logs . You MUST have been nested in or adopted (with bloodline proof) to prove relations.
Adopted individuals may remain within their matriline, and must modify their bloodline post to indicate they were adopted. They may not court within their natal matriline.


Up to 4 Sub/Adult females, all related.
No offspring/adoptees.

This group is known as a sisterhood.
Bloodlines are required to group as a part of a sisterhood. These bloodlines must be logged in  ⁠🩸・bloodline-logs . You MUST have been nested or adopted (with bloodline proof) to prove relations.


Up to 4 Sub/Adult males of any relation.
No offspring/adoptees.

This group is known as a rover.

Up to 3 matrilines or sisterhoods, regardless of relations between matrilines, may migrate together. Up to 1 rover may also follow. They will not feed from each other’s kills, will not group in game, and will not assist other matrilines,  sisterhoods, or rovers in hunting or defence.

This group is known as a pod.
 
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
Up to 2 Tylosaurus may enter an engagement.
Up to 1 adolescent may assist with a hunt. However, if the adolescent reaches half health, they will flee. They do not assist in defence.
Tylosaurus may hunt up to Apex tier.
Tylosaurus will not hunt adult Spinosaurus or Deinosuchus unless desperate hunger (35%), and will only hunt adult Apex terrestrial carnivores when they are swimming in water.
Kaiwheka, Eurhinosaurus, and Leedsichthys must be the first targets in the POI when hunting.
Parasaurolophus and Lambeosaurus are the next preferred targets.
Solo Adolescent Tylosaurus do not hunt other species.

Preferred Prey
Kaiwheka, Eurhinosaurus, and Leedsichthys must be hunted before all other prey in the POI.
Parasaurolophus and Lambeosaurus are the next preferred targets when they are on the beach or when swimming.
If neither of these prey options are available, Tylosaurus can hunt other species.
Tylosaurus do not eat the corpses of members within their matriline if they die, but may feed from corpses outside the matriline. They do not have to claim the body down of a member of their matriline.
Tylosaurus will only hunt adult Apex terrestrial carnivores if they are swimming in water.
Tylosaurus will not hunt Spinosaurus or Deinosuchus unless 35% hunger, but may respond to territory challenges from them. They may hunt their offspring freely.
Tylosaurus may hunt creatures within 1 bodylength from the water, but will always target those they can easily clamp first, in order to drag them into the water.
Tylosaurus may third party engagements that enter the water, or come within 1 bodylength of the water.
Tylosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.

Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 3 hours.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 4 hours.
Tylosaurus nest in shallow water within their preferred POIs.
Tylosaurus do not form same-sex pairs.
 
Physical Dimorphism
This profile does not have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Females, known as cows, are thicker than males, with large, smooth tails.
Suitable subspecies include: nepaeolicus
♂️ Males, known as bulls, are thinner and smaller than females, with a pointed fin jutting from their tail.
Suitable subspecies include: proriger, kansasenis, rex
Physical dimorphism for Tylosaurus is mandatory.
 
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 19.12.2025 23:46
Dimorphism Examples
 
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Tylosaurus offspring, known as calves, hatch fully capable of movement - and begin swimming, diving, and biting shortly after hatching. They hatch within carefully constructed kelp nests, and must quickly move from the nest and into the water.
Calves - despite their physical abilities - are extremely fragile, and receive gentle cleaning by their mothers before they are tucked along her side or beneath her fins in the water.
Calves reciprocate this affection towards their mother, even if the cleaning gesture does not land. This often means babies continuously flick their tongues in the water, regardless of if anyone is in front of them.
Calves instinctively stay close to their mothers and siblings, but pay their clutchmates very little attention during the hatchling stage. Their only priority is their mother, meaning that other calves may be shoved out of the way in effort to be close to her.
At Juvenile, Tylosaurus calves develop more of an awareness for the world around them, and begin to explore different things with their mouths - particularly their siblings. This takes the form of playful nips and continuous “licking”.  They flick their tongues to catch the scent of other Tylosaurus, critters, or curious objects in the water.
Tylosaurus calves at this point can be seen breaching the water often, jumping high out of the water in efforts to display to other calves, as well to their mothers and relatives, who call to them affectionately.
When frightened, Tylosaurus calves will flee to hide beneath a suitable adult in their matriline, or their mothers, who shield them with their bodies.
Tylosaurus calves show a natural interest in hunting at this point, and begin following critters, Tropeognathus, Thalassodromeus, Rhamphornhychus, and other small creatures through the water.
Tylosaurus calves below Adolescent are extremely susceptible to heat and direct sunlight, and will die quickly if beached for an extended period of time (more than 5 minutes).
Once beached, they require an adult to push them back into water - something which carries considerable risk for the adult Tylosaurus.
Beached Tylosaurus calves are extremely susceptible to Hatzegopteryx, who take the opportunity to grab the calf from the sands and fly away with it, much to the panic of their mothers. 
Mothers - or other adult caretakers - are sometimes unable to move quick enough on land to save the calf.
Tylosaurus form strong bonds with their siblings in their youth, working together to chase aquatic critters and fish down, and playing by charging and spinning past one another.
By adolescence, calves begin to exhibit behavioral dimorphism, with cows preferring the bonds of their sisters and mothers, while bulls begin to show more independence and desire to roam.
Calves quickly pick up on hunting skills as they age. Watching from a safe distance as their family hunts prey, they observe the vital skills and strategies they will need to feed their matriline. These skills are well practised, with young hunting down rays, small sharks, and fish.
Calves show a strong curiosity towards their surroundings, and rush to grab items of interest within their jaws. They take time to inspect these items before investigating them further with their tongues and mouths, and present particularly favored items to their siblings, mother, and grandmother.
Adolescent calves also mimic the calls of the adults in their matriline, repeatedly echoing the sounds until it has the perfect and unique tonation to match the rest of their matriline.
At Sub-Adult, if there is room, calves may remain in group with their natal matriline. Otherwise, they disperse from the group but may remain nearby, either within a rover or - in the case of daughters - dispersing into a sisterhood, or going alone until they can court and form their own matriline.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Tylosaurus calves who hatch alone quickly flee to a kelp bed or heavy object floating in the water to treat as a pseudo-mother. At times, these calves can be observed following other aquatic species in an attempt to have food provided to them, and comfort offered.
Rejection by these other species results in a Tylosaurus calf fleeing, and never seeking comfort from an unfamiliar species again. These calves take much longer to befriend, even within their own species.
Tylosaurus calves are adopted at any time by willing cows, and while the bonding process may take some time with particularly fearful or skittish calves, they do eventually warm up to the idea. 
They eagerly return their newfound mother’s gentle licks and stay close to her, refusing to leave her side.
Orphans that have been adopted may remain as a part of their mother’s matriline; however, they must make a bloodline post to log their adoption.
If a Tylosaurus calf is orphaned while a part of a matriline, they will be quickly adopted by another cow in the matriline, and may still remain with their matriline once Sub-Adult.
Orphans who grew up without contact with other Tylosaurus may struggle with socialization and courtship. These individuals may form their own matriline, or join a rover if a bull.
Bild
Tylosaurus are nomadic mosasaurids who form strong familial bonds, with groups typically consisting of a mother and her adult offspring.
Tylosaurus migrate through the oceans of Gondwa and Riparia.
Tylosaurus have good eyesight both above and below the water, and often partake in a behavior called “spyhopping” - briefly lifting their faces out of the water to look around at what lies above.
Tylosaurus have excellent hearing, especially within the water. Tylosaurus develop unique vocalizations and sounds that are shared within their matrilines, and can expand across entire pods, especially if they are all from one mother.
Tylosaurus are nearly constantly vocalizing, primarily below water when it is not the breeding season. These loud, powerful calls can span leagues beneath the waves, and are quickly picked up on by other Tylosaurus.
While Tylosaurus can withstand great depths, Tylosaurus pods are often seen partaking in surface behaviors such as breaching (jumping completely out of the water), tail-slapping, and sleeping amongst kelp. These are popular methods of bonding between Tylosaurus, as well as methods of removing parasites.
Tylosaurus additionally have a great sense of touch, which they use to identify other Tylosaurus and their offspring in deep, dark water. Tylosaurus often bond through close proximity and physical contact, such as swimming nearby one another and brushing against each other. Tylosaurus often spin through the water nearby other Tylosaurus to initiate play.
The most straightforward way for a Tylosaurus to express affection for another Tylosaurus is through mutual grooming, done by continuous flicks of their tongue against the scales of their friend, sibling, offspring, or parent.
Tylosaurus also use their tongues to detect changes in the water, such as vibrations, temperature changes, and scents.
Tylosaurus often display stress by opening their mouths as widely as possible, both as a way to show their strength and to quickly turn the movement into a strong bite if required (letting Bone Snap fully charge up).
Particularly bonded individuals exhibit synchronous surfacing, a behavior where all members in a matriline, rover, or pod rise to the surface of the water together and float for a while.
Tylosaurus prefer to hunt other aquatic species, but will hunt terrestrial or aerial species if they are swimming in water or within a close length of the water and easy enough to grab.
Tylosaurus will avoid staying beached on land for too long, in order to avoid being hunted by opportunistic predators. The further a Tylosaurus goes on land, the higher the risk they have of becoming dehydrated and dying to the heat.
✦ Downtime Behavior
Tylosaurus sleep by only shutting down one half of their brain at a time, in order to allow themselves to rise for air when needed. Without this necessary sleep process, the Tylosaurus risks drowning, or sinking to the bottom of the ocean floor.
Tylosaurus will float slowly alongside other members in their pod when sleeping, remaining very close together. This behavior is known as “logging.”
For the deepest sleep, Tylosaurus will find kelp forests, nuzzling into the leaves and finding comfortable places with their offspring and loved ones.
 
Bild
✦ Matrilines
Matrilines are the most common of Tylosaurus groupings, with a leading cow who has nested in or adopted all other members of the matriline. 
Adoptees may not court other individuals within their matriline.
Matrilines require bloodline logs in order to be grouped. Adopted members must still log bloodline posts, and indicate that they have been adopted.
At the head of all matrilines is the mother of the matriline, who leads the group in hunting, migrating, courtship and nesting. She is almost always one of the hunters, and the primary defender of the matriline.
The rest of the group consists of the mother’s offspring and their descendants, who form extremely strong bonds with their mother and siblings, and remain in the matriline for the rest of their adult lives.
Dispersal from a matriline after one has settled is extremely rare; a matriline only breaks apart if the mother of the matriline dies. In their mourning, bulls split with their brothers to form rovers, and daughters begin their own matrilines or sisterhoods.
Relationships between individuals in a matriline are highly stable, with individuals rarely being apart from each other for more than a few hours.
All members within a matriline are very strongly bonded, and can be observed constantly playing, vocalizing and harmonizing with one another.
Mothers of a matriline pass down their knowledge, and daughters from there then pass down the knowledge to their offspring, and so on and so forth. Ancestral hunting strategies and migration paths are passed down through several generations in this way.
 
✦ Sisterhoods
Sisterhoods are temporary groupings of sisters who have dispersed from their natal matriline and not yet formed one of their own. Hunting and living together, these groups are highly capable and are usually strongly bonded - but do not adopt or raise offspring.
In order to raise offspring, sisterhoods must disperse to form their own matriline. If uninterested in courtship or forming their own matriline, they may opt to remain together instead.
✦ Rovers
Rovers consist of either related or unrelated males. These can be bulls without a living mother, bulls that have been shunned from their matriline, or bulls temporarily breaking away from their matriline in order to court unrelated cows.
Being removed from their matriline often makes a bull unwilling to socialize with others, and go through a very strong grieving period. These bulls rely on the bonds they have with a brother in order to prevent themselves ending up entirely solitary.
Bulls in rovers are aggressive towards bulls in rival rovers, and do not tolerate them in their POIs. These bulls pose as competition for cows the groups encounter.
Bulls in rovers may court cows within matrilines, as long as they are not related to any cows in the matriline.
Rovers compete with other rovers for the right to follow a matriline or a pod, and do not tolerate other rovers within a POI.
Time spent together helps forge bonds between bulls within a rover. They begin to form bonds, and show more interest in remaining together in their rover grouping.
Even with closer bonds, bulls still display and spar often - a form of play that also hones their hunting and fighting skills.
Rovers do not adopt offspring, and will turn tail and swim away from them. If the offspring continues to follow them, the rovers may kill and eat them if sufficiently hungry. This is treated as a hunt.
✦ Pods
Pods consist of up to 3 matrilines or sisterhoods that are traveling together, and up to 1 rover. These pods may be of any relation to one another, and may split apart at any time. Travelling within a pod provides the benefit of being able to court, but matrilines, sisterhoods and rovers do not defend each other when being hunted, nor do they assist others with hunts.
Pods often socialize amongst each other, especially if they have encountered one another before. Matrilines may return to areas where they have been before to find other matrilines that they have bonded with.
Pods often circle together in a continuous motion, spinning and calling to one another. This is an observed from of play between individuals, especially those that are strongly bonded.
✦ Solitary Behavior
Solitary Tylosaurus typically exhibit higher anxiety or aggression. They are unable to join matrilines as they only consist of a mother and her offspring, and may only form rover groupings if they are male.
A solitary cow may travel very far in search of a suitable matriline to follow, preferably one with bulls, so that she may form her own matriline. Cows thrive in social situations, and are often seen traveling very quietly rather than with the typical noisiness of groups.
Cows who are solitary with offspring are extremely protective of them, and show aggression towards rovers that get too close, tucking their offspring beneath them.
Solitary Tylosaurus often take short naps in caves for shelter, and prefer to stay out of shallow waters in order to avoid the risk of being hunted by terrestrial and aerial predators.
When threatened, it is very common for solitary Tylosaurus to rush into the engagement, calling aggressively and loudly to attempt to intimidate the threat away from them. They use their powerful heads and tails to whip threats away from themselves. If they become too injured, they quickly flee from the engagement, using underwater caves or tunnels to their advantage.
Solitary bull Tylosaurus often charge into objects to release energy and stress, sending pebbles and dirt to the sea bed.
Bulls are significantly more aggressive when solitary than when they are within groups, and completely reject offspring that approach them. These bulls often enter into fierce challenges with creatures like solitary Spinosaurus and Deinosuchus.
Tylosaurus that are solitary exhibit the most stress out of all Tylosaurus, often opening their mouths wide and rubbing up against objects in an attempt to soothe themselves.
Solitary Tylosaurus who were raised by a matriline will display the unique hunting behaviors of their matriline, while solitary Tylosaurus who grew up orphans will develop their own hunting behaviors based on their own experiences.
✦ Albino & Melanistic Behavior
Melanistic Tylosaurus risk overheating at a much faster rate than their non-Melanistic counterparts, and cannot beach without risking death from the heat of the hot sands and sunlight. 
It can take less than 5 minutes for a Tylosaurus to become too exhausted to drag itself back to the water - meaning that if a melanistic Tylosaurus becomes stuck, its only chance of surviving is having an ally push it back off of the beach and onto land.
Melanistic Tylosaurus are accepted in courtship and as members of hunting pairs.
Albino Tylosaurus are much more fragile than other Tylosaurus, and also risk overheating - this time paired with painful sunburns that leave Tylosaurus unwilling to rub up against or be too close to other Tylosaurus.
Albino Tylosaurus are much slower both in water and on land than non-Albino Tylosaurus counterparts, and are as a result typically chosen only if there is no other options available for a hunting pair.
Albino Tylosaurus are also - as a result of their lack of speed and therefore inability to provide for offspring - chosen last during courtship.
Neither Albino or Melanistic Tylosaurus are treated any differently otherwise, and may still happily bond within their matrilines, sisterhoods, and as a part of rovers.
Bild
✦ Between Rovers
Rovers are extremely aggressive towards solitary bulls and other rovers. Rover pairs often “claim” pods or matrilines in attempt to court them and do not tolerate other rovers - or solitary males - within the POI.
Rovers are only aggressive towards solitary bulls when they have no room for other bulls in their group.
However, rovers do not view males within matrilines as threats, as males within their mother’s matrilines do not court the females in that group.
Rover groupings challenge each other with loud and aggressive calls. They swim back and forth, viciously lashing their tails, and displaying their shape, colors, and scars in a threatening manner. 
This posturing continues for at least 10 seconds before a challenge begins, unless one side forfeits with a fear call and flees.
Rovers do not chase other rovers after a forfeit, but instead swim back and forth in front of the matriline or pod that they have won, eager to ensure no other rovers are nearby.
Winning a contest in this way is often satisfactory to cows for courtship, and - if the females are interested - may result in them initiating courtship.
✦ Shunning Behaviors
Within a matriline, it is very rare that any aggressive behavior is shown, if at all. If a Tylosaurus is aggressive towards any others in its matriline, bites offspring, or is otherwise acting sickly, the mother of the matriline may initiate shunning.
The shunned individual is pushed outside of the boundaries of the group physically. If the shunned individual gets back into close proximity, they are then nipped at and aggressive called away.
If they still do not pick up on the mother’s intent, or blatantly ignore her, the entire matriline may swarm and tear into the shunned individual.
They will not feed from the body if they successfully kill the individual - instead tucking their offspring close and leaving the area.
Bild
Tylosaurus only hunt Spinosaurus and Deinosuchus if desperate hunger (35%). Tylosaurus are a very intelligent species, and understand that Spinosaurus and Deinosuchus pose great risks to them. Tylosaurus may always accept a challenge from Spinosaurus or Deinosuchus for the right to remain within a territory.
Otherwise, Deinosuchus and Spinosaurus are ignored.
However, offspring of these species may be freely hunted.
Tylosaurus only hunt Sub/Adult Apex terrestrial carnivores if they are actively swimming in water. However, they may hunt hatchling, juvenile, or adolescent Apex terrestrial carnivores at any time.
Tylosaurus can also be observed killing Tropeognathus, Thalassodromeus, Rhamphornhychus, and Halzskaraptor when they dive for food or are in the water nearby them.
Tylosaurus feed from the bodies of Tropeognathus and Thalassodromeus, but will not feed from Rhamphornhychus or Halszkaraptor bodies, instead abandoning them after playing with the corpses briefly.
Tylosaurus additionally stalks herds of Lambeosaurus and Parasaurolophus when they are within line of sight of the water. Often, these hadrosaurs make great migrations across water, making them the perfect targets for a hungry Tylosaurus.
Though these hadrosaurus usually migrate alongside Iguanodon, Iguanodon are less preferred as prey due to their sharp, piercing thumb spikes.
Before anything else in LOS, Tylosaurus must first attempt a hunt on Kaiwheka or Eurhinosaurus. These smaller prey are perfect enrichment for Tylosaurus matrilines, and often are cornered by hunting pairs.
Lambeosaurus and Parasaurolophus are the next targets. Only if none of these species are available to hunt do Tylosaurus turn to other prey.
Lurdusaurus are also favored prey of Tylosaurus - often grabbed from their dams and herds and dragged deep into the sea, where they are less likely to escape, and struggle to defend themselves.
✦ Predator Reaction
Tylosaurus pay little mind to other carnivorous species, but will quickly move to defend members of their matriline should they be targetted.
Up to 2 Tylosaurus may take part in defence - typically the mother of the matriline, and one other adult individual.
The rest of the Tylosaurus in the matriline quickly rush calves to safety beneath them and away from the engagement.
Sisterhoods and rovers may not defend one another.
 
Bild
Pairs of Tylosaurus work together to bring down their prey, using their strong jaws to break the bones of their targets, as well as to clamp them and pull them deep beneath the water - drowning them.
Tylosaurus can be observed “playing” with their prey - nosing them around in the water, blocking them from reaching land - before eventually dragging them beneath the waves and tearing into them.
Leedsichthys adults, though a favoured meal, are treated with a more cautious approach, with Tylosaurus adults often relying on ambush, speed and numbers to overwhelm their target.
However, Leedsichthys pups, whether attended or unattended, are treated with far less care.Tylosaurus are quick to clamp pups, slipping them away from their fathers and towards the coast, where the pup is dropped on the beach and left to suffocate.
Different Tylosaurus matrilines may exhibit different and unique hunting behaviors, such as those detailed below:
Beaching: Tylosaurus matrilines may stalk shores, looking for individuals drinking from or intending to swim across the water. To initiate the engagement, Tylosaurus will lunge out of the water and use their powerful jaws to bonebreak or clamp their target to pull them back into the water with them. This can be dangerous for Tylosaurus, especially if done against carnivorous prey. 
Tylosaurus will not crawl further than a bodylength from the water in pursuit of prey.
Chasing: Tylosaurus matrilines may stalk and chase their prey for extended periods, with the intention of exhausting them.
Herding: Tylosaurus matrilines may opt to selectively hunt Kaiwheka. Upon finding a group of Kaiwheka, Tylosaurus will position themselves in ways that frighten the Kaiwheka in the direction they would like them to go. The goal is to corner Kaiwheka against an underwater cliffside or into a tunnel or into a cave, where another Tylosaurus lies in wait to land deadly blows.
Up to two Tylosaurus may take part in a hunt on another species. All other individuals move away from any ongoing engagement to ensure that there is no interference.
Up to 1 adolescent Tylosaurus may also assist in hunts, but must individually forfeit when at half health and flee the engagement.
Tylosaurus may third party engagements that enter the water or 1 body length of the water. Tylosaurus prefer to target the individual whom looks most injured or that it can clamp, dragging it away and deeper beneath the water to finish the engagement itself.
 
Bild
✦ Courtship
Courtship begins with Tylosaurus cows surfacing and broadcasting to attract any unrelated bulls to the area. Bulls, in response - if ready to court - breach the surface and return their calls eagerly.
This is particularly easy to initiate when a pod has two unrelated matrilines traveling together, or matrilines with accompanying rovers.
Receptive cows lead bulls underwater, and spin to indicate their continued interest. Interested bulls follow eagerly, checking to make sure no other bulls have followed.
Should more than one bull follow the cow below, bulls initiate a challenging display to win the right to court the cow first. The challenge consists of bulls performing fierce headbutts against nearby rocks or cliffs, with the winner being the bull that creates the most impactful force.
The winning bull earns the right to perform his display first - and does so by circling, creating an intricate dance that highlights his strength and fitness. During the dance, bulls offer friendly calls towards the observing cows, demonstrating good temperament.
Bulls swim in a circle and spin for a minimum of at least three times, before sinking slowly to the bottom, awaiting for the decision from the cows.
If a cow chooses a bull, she will swim to the bottom in front of her chosen bull and begin to reciprocate his dance, swimming in circles and spinning to showcase her own vitality. Her dance imitates his own, utilising similar movements and patterns.
Cows may reject a bull even if he wins a display if he fails to impress them with his dance.
Loser bulls are allowed to perform their dances only after the winning bull has courted successfully - or been rejected by the remaining cows.
Bulls are able to court up to 3 cows at a time.
✦ Nesting
After successful courtship, bulls return to their rovers or matriline, and cows return to their matriline - or form a new one on their own. Bulls have no involvement in the raising of their own offspring.
The mothers of the matriline lead the group to nesting spots. These spots are typically those where the mother was born herself - a secluded area with shallow, warm water.
Within a matriline, all Tylosaurus help nesting cows construct their nests, providing support to their family members in this exciting - and relatively short - period of time.
Bulls within a matriline often prefer to remain on the outskirts of the nesting areas, allowing their sisters, aunts and mother the space to build nests and forge bonds with their young offspring.
While nesting, all members of a matriline become more defensive of their personal space and offspring, and do not tolerate the presence of other carnivores.
✦ Parenthood
From the moment that offspring hatch onto the kelp beds, mothers feel incredible attachment to their offspring, and quickly encourage them to climb off of the kelp beds and into the warm, safe water.
Mothers clean their young first by flicking her tongue over them repeatedly, before tucking them against her sides or beneath her belly to ensure they are covered from aerial predators.
The entire matriline works together to shelter offspring and to ensure they are fed - with siblings, aunts and uncles swimming out to the deeper seas to find prey to return to young offspring, before mothers are comfortable bringing them into the deeper parts of the sea.
Offspring are very fragile, so all members of the matriline move slowly within their nesting areas to ensure that offspring are not accidentally damaged with the movement of adult bodies.
Once offspring are juvenile, they are brought out of the shallows and into deeper water, where mothers initiate play by spinning and swimming around them, rubbing up against them, and nudging them up towards the surface of the water.
Mothers play hunting and stalking games with offspring in kelp forests and tunnels, ensuring that offspring develop the skills they will need later in life.
Mothers remain very close to their offspring throughout their early lives, and through this foster extremely strong bonds with them.
If offspring accidentally beach themselves, it is the responsibility of the mother or one of the nearby adults in the matriline to rescue the offspring. This poses high risks on the mother, who may be hunted in her time out of the water. Despite this, many mothers still rush to the rescue of her calves, using her body to push them back into the safety of the water.
At adolescent, mothers begin to allow calves to travel further away from them, but still keep a close eye on them.
Mothers teach their offspring the hunting strategies and the unique vocal calls that they will use throughout their entire lives, encouraging them to hone their skills via hunting critters and fish.
All cows within a matriline express interest in each other’s calves, and help ensure all calves are fed and safe. Bulls show less interest in the calves, but still initiate play and take calves on small hunting trips to prey on fish.
Up to 1 adolescent may assist with hunts, but will flee from the engagement if brought below half health. This may also result in the rest of the hunting party forfeiting as well, in an attempt to defend the calf.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Once offspring reach Sub-Adult, if there is room for them, they may stay within the matriline. Otherwise, they disperse to form their own groups and matrilines.
However, at times, some mothers (who are not the mother of the matriline) may opt to disperse entirely with their own offspring, and travel alongside their natal matriline as a newly formed pod.
Mothers continue to maintain doting and loving relationships with their offspring throughout their adult lives, licking them, ensuring they are fed, attempting to tuck them beneath her, and initiating play.
✦ Adoption
Mothers dote on adopted children the same as she would for her own offspring. They are raised with the same level of care and dedication as any other calves, nuzzled often and taught how to hunt and play.
Bild
Tylosaurus cows, once they have had their 20th clutch, are no longer able to lay eggs. They show very limited interest in courtship and do not construct nests, but willingly assist others in their matriline in raising their own offspring, and happily adopt.
Despite Tylosaurus cows not being able to nest after 20 clutches, it does not immediately make them an elder, and they continue to move as easily and hunt as easily as they did through the rest of their lives previously.
When a Tylosaurus reaches an older age, they become slower, with their bodies beginning to ache. With these new found aches, Tylosaurus lose their strength and become less likely to participate as active hunters.
Older Tylosaurus breach more for air, and have their vision worsen over time. These elders at times end up swimming into objects and other dinosaurs.
✦ Death
Tylosaurus mothers have been observed refusing to leave the bodies of deceased calves, constantly licking and nuzzling them in attempt to rouse the baby. This puts movements of entire matrilines on hold, until the body is gone or claimed by another predator.
Tylosaurus who are at the brink of death often accidentally beach themselves, or sink deep to the bottom of the ocean, unable to gather the strength to unbeach themselves or swim back to the top.
Despite the gentle nudges from the others in their matriline, the dying individual does not move, exhausted. This often results in dismay from the closely bonded members of their matriline - who quickly settle by their side, only leaving to go get air or to attempt to bring the dying Tylosaurus food.
Once the individual has passed, Tylosaurus quickly disperse from the body, and refuse to eat from it, calling mournfully. These calls are heard loudly and for far distances. When the Tylosaurus realizes that its summoning calls are to no avail, they begin to swim away, either dispersing from their matriline entirely or leaving with their offspring.
Bild
N/A
Bild
Tylosaurus matrilines and sisterhoods require bloodlines. In order to group with a matriline or sisterhood, all offspring must have the same bloodline name as their mother, posted in bloodline logs.
RULE EXEMPTIONS
Tylosaurus do not have to claim the bodies of other Tylosaurus in their matriline or sisterhood, Rhamphornhychus, or Halszkaraptor. 5.3
Tylosaurus males may eat orphan offspring who persistently attempt to follow them if hungry enough. 8.4
Tylosaurus are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
 
Preferred POIs
Bild
Bild
Tylosaurus is temporarily using the Suchomimus map.
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 05.05.2026 03:35
Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 13.06.2026 21:11
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Tylosaurus are Apex Cathemeral Aquatic Carnivores.
Tylosaurus in matrilines can group up to 6 sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees. Members within matrilines and sisterhoods must log their relations in ⁠🩸・bloodline-logs
Tylosaurus in rovers can group up to 4 male sub/adults, no offspring, no adoptees. Related (and adopted - with bloodline proof) female sub/adults with no offspring and no adoptees can group up to 4 in a sisterhood.
Tylosaurus are aggressive.
Tylosaurus can have up to 2 in an engagement. Tylosaurus can have up to 2 Sub/Adults and 1 Adolescent in a hunting party, but Adolescents who reach half health will individually forfeit and flee the engagement.
Tylosaurus may hunt up to Apex tier. Tylosaurus will not hunt adult Apex terrestrial carnivores unless they are swimming in water, and will only hunt Sub/Adult Spinosaurus or Deinosuchus if desperate hunger. Tylosaurus may not scavenge.
Tylosaurus must hunt Kaiwheka, Eurhinosaurus, and Leedsichthys before anything else in LOS. After Kai and Eurhino, their next priority targets are Parasaurolophus and Lambeosaurus. They may hunt other species if none of those 4 species are available as prey.
Tylosaurus live in matrilines, where the oldest cow leads the group, this cow is known as the mother of the matriline.
Tylosaurus also form sisterhoods, groups of sisters that travel together after dispersing from their natal matriline.
Tylosaurus males who do not have a matriline live within groups called rovers. Rovers have no overall leader, and are aggressive to other rovers.
Solo Tylosaurus are known to be much more aggressive or anxious.
Tylosaurus can be seen often “licking” the area around them.
Tylosaurus matrilines each use unique hunting strategies to catch their prey.
Tylosaurus females become infertile at 20 clutches. After a cow reaches 20 clutches, she can still adopt.
Tylosaurus accept melanistic and albino individuals. Albinos are picked last for courting and for hunting.
Tylosaurus may hunt other ungrouped Tylosaurus when desperate hunger (35%). Hunger must be logged for both members of the hunting party. They do not turn on their groupmates or migration partners.

Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 20-60-75-85 = 240 total
Combat Weight: 5000
Adjusted Stats:
 - Increased combat weight to 5000 from 4500
- Increased health from 900 to 1000
 
Bild
Quick Links
Top
Growing Up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?