Latenivenatrix
    "Laten"
Latenivenatrix, a large troodontid, form large, social, and noisy rookeries. Latenivenatrix is often observed singing, dancing, jumping, and playing with other Latenivenatrix. Uniquely, Latenivenatrix may also form bonds with Achillobator, whom act as hunting partners and strong allies.

Written by Dynasty Realism
With contributions from: Kittyful
Photo: XoBright
Profile inspired by rooks.


Copyright: This profile and its core ideas are owned by Dynasty Realism 2024-Beyond

Bild
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 12.04.2026 22:59
Overview
Bild
Small Nocturnal Terrestrial Carnivore
Though nocturnal, Latenivenatrix may perform all activities during the day, except hunting. 
They may still hunt hatchlings, juveniles, deathscarred, and Albinos during the day.
Latenivenatrix form temporary or lifelong pairbonds or trio-bonds, depending on individual preference.
Latenivenatrix are somewhat nomadic and territorial, and claim small territories. These territories center around placed nests by the rookery when they settle for the daytime, and are defended by the entire group.
Latenivenatrix have a  tolerant nature when not defending their territory.
Latenivenatrix are scavengers when in groups of 3 or less.
Latenivenatrix tolerate all mutated individuals.

Genetics
Skins that are considered mutations for Species include:
Albino, Melanistic, DR Tabico Mutation, IoAR Albino
Players must roll in ⁠🎲・genetics-rolls to use these skins in game. This is one roll per species, per character. Only when the character dies can you roll again if using the same character name.

Group Limits (In-Game Group)
Up to 16 Sub/Adults
Unlimited Offspring
Unlimited Adoptees. Latenivenatrix rookeries may adopt up to 1 Achillobator offspring at a time.

This group is known as a rookery.
 
Engagement Limits (Defence & Hunts)
WITHOUT ACHILLOBATOR:
Up to 6 Latenivenatrix may participate in an engagement or hunt.
1+ Latenivenatrix may hunt Medium tier and below.
6 Latenivenatrix may hunt Large tier and below.
They cannot hunt Amargasaurus.

WITH ACHILLOBATOR:
Up to 3 Latenivenatrix may participate in an engagement or hunt with Achillobator.
Hunting limit with Achillobator: With at least 1 Achillobator, 2+ Latenivenatrix may hunt up to Apex tier, excluding Apatosaurus. They may only hunt solo Apex carnivores.

Territory defence: All grouped Latenivenatrix and their bonded Achillobator may participate in defending their shared small nest territory. 
Driving out Deinonychus: All grouped Latenivenatrix may participate in driving Deinonychus out of the POI. Achillobator do not assist.

Latenivenatrix do not tolerate scavengers.
Latenivenatrix may defend their bonded Achillobator companions and adoptees at any time.
Latenivenatrix flee from Hatzegopteryx, Quetzalcoatlus, and Kelenken, regardless of whether they are with Achillobator companions or not.
Latenivenatrix do not hunt Sub/Adult Amargasaurus, Apatosaurus or Argentinosaurus. 
They may hunt Adolescent and below Amargasaurus.
Adolescent Latenivenatrix do not assist their parents in their hunts, nor do they take part in hunting with Achillobator. They may, however, hunt critters independently, but often will simply continue to be fed by their parents.

Preferred Prey/Diet
Latenivenatrix target Lambeosaurus, Styracosaurus, Pachycephalosaurus, Citipati, Camptosaurus and Dryosaurus first and foremost if multiple prey options are available in the POI, within hunting limit requirements.
When hunting alongside Achillobator companions, Latenivenatrix target larger prey first, such as; Iguanodon, Parasaurolophus, Pachyrhinosaurus and Eotriceratops if multiple prey options are available in the POI, within hunting limit requirements.
Latenivenatrix will not eat the bodies of fallen Achillobator companions or other Latenivenatrix.
Latenivenatrix are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information.
Latenivenatrix do not hunt Deinonychus.
 
Nesting Limits
🌧️﻿ Rainy Season: 4 🥚﻿ per 1 hour.
☀️﻿ Dry Season: 2 🥚﻿ per 1 hour.
Latenivenatrix nest in creches, with all other Latenivenatrix in the group placing a nest at the same time. They claim small territories around these nesting sites. These nest sites are placed every day to form a small territory, regardless of whether the group is nesting or not.
Latenivenatrix may form same-sex pairs and bonded trios.

Physical Dimorphism
Latenivenatrix has physical dimorphism, centered around a slight difference in body shapes and the ends of their tails.
This profile does not have high and low T individuals.
♀️ Females are stockier than males, and have rounded tails.
Suitable subspecies include: formosus
♂️ Males are sleeker, and have forked tails.
Suitable subspecies include: inequalis, mcmasterae
Physical dimorphism for Latenivenatrix is mandatory.
Bild
Bild
✦ Offspring Behavior (Nested)
Latenivenatrix offspring, known as chicks, hatch vulnerable and utterly reliant on their parents. They tumble out of their eggs, wet and sticky, and cry out in light squeaking noises to draw their parents to them.
They hatch with feathers and basic abilities to thermoregulate, but instinctively huddle close to their siblings and brooding parent for better warmth retention.
Chicks remain huddled in the nest for the first few stages of their lives, waiting for comfort and food from their parents. They pay little attention to their siblings at first, focusing entirely on eating enough to grow their frail bodies.
By the end of the hatchling phase, chicks grow sturdier and more aware of their surroundings - and begin to take a sharp interest in the world around them!
Parents gently encourage this curiosity, and guide their freshly Juvenile chicks  to the outer borders of the nest. Rookeries frequently lay their eggs in clusters of adjoining nests, and parents permit their young to traipse between neighbouring nests.
Once chicks are mobile in this way, parenting becomes communal. All members of the rookery contribute to help rear and protect young - though chicks still show a clear preference for seeking comfort from their own parents.
Clutches are merged together into a bustling creche - much to the delight of chicks, who seem to revel in the noise, movement, and excitement of having additional playmates and caregivers.
Within the creche, chicks begin to socialize and develop essential communication skills. They mimic the calls of each other and nearby adults, and even - on occasion - attempt to copy sounds made by other dinosaurs.
At Juvenile, chicks begin latching - often on each other, adult Latenivenatrix, and bonded Achillobator companions. Chicks seem to enjoy holding on to a caregiver, and can frequently be seen being carried by adults.
Playfighting becomes a favorite pastime, with chicks tugging at each other's feathers and exchanging gentle nips and swipes. These playful scuffles double as valuable hunting practice, and help to hone their reflexes and agility.
Playfighting is never taken seriously - the moment a chick bites too hard or becomes too boisterous, their playmate squawks and retreats in protest. Serious injury is rare, as overly rambunctious individuals are swiftly corrected by adults watching over the creche.
When rookeries have a sufficient number of adults present, one is always stationed as a dedicated babysitter to supervise the creche. This is a necessary precaution, as chicks hatched into large groups are endlessly curious and prone to wandering out of the territory. 
However, chicks raised in smaller rookeries tend to be more cautious and reserved. They seem to pick up on the stress of their parents, and remain quieter, and less inclined to stray far from the safety of the territory.
As they mature, chicks are granted greater freedom to roam - though still under the supervision of adults. The newfound sense of independence fills chicks with boundless excitement - often displayed through racing and chasing sessions, with chicks calling out in bright chirps and yips.
Hunting is a skill learned rapidly, and appears to be seemingly instinctual for this highly intelligent species. Chicks observe first and act after - often witnessing multiple hunts or how different species behave before jumping in for the kill. Critters are frequently caught and killed by chicks, who receive practically aggressive praise from the adults in the group, which reinforces the behavior.
At adolescence, chicks are relatively self-sufficient. More than capable of hunting small prey to sustain themselves, they are also able to navigate their surroundings carefully - and learn to hide themselves effectively from known danger.
Despite this growing independence, the rookery continues to dote on them - offering food, grooming and vocal reassurance well into adulthood.
Adolescents remain deeply affectionate towards their elders - often bringing trinkets such as bones, flowers, or scraps of meat to them as tokens of affection. These exchanges strengthen the social bonds of the rookery, helping maintain order among the group.
As they approach Sub-Adult, their restlessness grows. Rookeries with room for offspring to remain welcome them fully into the rookery, and they begin participating in group hunts and defence of the group.
When there's no space, they leave to find a new rookery, but maintain close bonds and recognize one another if they meet again.
Whether they stay or leave, all Latenivenatrix retain the deep social instincts forged in their communal upbringing. Even after dispersing, adults may return to visit - or even reintegrate - into their natal rookery.
✦ Orphaned Behavior (Wild Spawn)
Orphaned Latenivenatrix show higher levels of caution and anxiety in comparison to chicks raised in a creche setting. From an early age, they are alert and subdued, and more hesitant to engage with unfamiliar surroundings.
Without adults or siblings to assist them in thermoregulation, chicks instinctively seek physical contact with any creature willing to tolerate their presence. This is sometimes mistaken for a form of imprinting behavior in Latenivenatrix, but it is purely a survival-driven response to conserve body heat.
If lucky enough to find a rookery, Latenivenatrix chicks are often swiftly adopted and placed within the communal creche. These chicks go on to suffer no ill effects of their earlier orphanhood, and integrate quickly into rookery life.
Unfortunately, those that do not tend to develop exaggerated attachment behaviors, even as they mature. They persistently follow specific individuals, attempting to solicit grooming or feeding. 
Individuals that previously relied on another species for warmth may display similar attachments towards that species - or individual - later in life, though this does is not considered true imprinting behavior.
Orphans mature faster out of necessity. Forced with being self-sufficient at a young age, they end up highly observant individuals - preferring to watch and assess situations carefully before acting.
Play behavior in orphans is reduced or absent entirely in comparison to those with parents. Even when siblings remain together, their focus is placed firmly on survival, resulting in heightened vigilance and less time for play.
By Adolescent, most orphans are capable solitary hunters, able to bring down small prey and critters in order to feed themselves.
Bild
Latenivenatrix are a highly intelligent and alert species that have a constant awareness of their surroundings. Even at rest periods, individuals remain attentive, tracking movement and sound with their senses.
Curiosity is a defining trait for this species. Latenivenatrix are drawn to novelty, and frequently investigate unfamiliar objects, species or environmental changes. They are known to move items both with their jaws and their arms - lifting and inspecting bones, branches, foliage and rocks with apparent interest.
They show a fondness for dust baths, particularly along dry riverbanks and sandy clearings. These behaviors serve as both helpful feather maintenance and sensory stimulation.
Vocalization is near constant. Healthy groups seem to echo one another in songs - communicating in a series of clicks, chirps and chattering noises. When one group member begins to "sing", it causes a ripple effect in the rest of the group, prompting even the most reserved member to join their groupmates.
Nimble and restless, Latenivenatrix rarely remain still for long during their active period at night. Short bursts of movement are common, and help to hone their agility.
Uniquely, Latenivenatrix often form a bond and mutualistic relationship with Achillobator. More can be found under Cross-Species Behavior.
✦ Downtime Behavior
During the day, Latenivenatrix settle for a rest period. The group stops migrating through POIs and together they construct a huge cluster of nests in the middle of a clearing. These nests always consist of large branches, creating an almost cave-like system.
Great care is taken to constructing these nests, and every individual gathers resources to ensure their contribution is perfected.
Once all nests are constructed, the group converge together in the middle of the nests and cuddle together in a large pile. Individuals take it in turns to keep a watch out for danger, while the majority take naps.
They guard a territory border of 5 body lengths around this nesting site, and work together as a group to ward off threats.
Rookeries with less than 6 Latenivenatrix present may only ward off threats of Medium tier and below.
With at least 1 Achillobator, and 2+ Latenivenatrix present, Latenivenatrix may ward off threats of up to Solo Apex.
 
Bild
Latenivenatrix form strong bonds with other members of their rookery overtime, strengthening relationships with gentle preening, games of chase, gift-giving, and singing together.
Latenivenatrix often stretch their wings open at each other excitedly in greeting, crowing and calling loudly when they reunite with an individual they have not seen for a while.
A particularly popular individual in the rookery may be incidentally swarmed by other Latenivenatrix wanting to preen them, sleep near to them, or rest alongside them.
✦ Rookeries
Latenivenatrix are an intensely social species, and most comfortable when surrounded by others of their kind. They form large, loosely structured groups known as rookeries, which can range from a handful of adults to larger groups of up to 16.
Rookeries have no overall leader, and Latenivenatrix do not rely on any rigid hierarchy structure. Authority is situational, with individuals instinctively deferring to older and more experienced adults during moments of uncertainty.
Decisions are made as a group within the rookery. Movement, resting sites, and response to threats are shaped through group reaction, as opposed to dominance and control seen in other species, such as Deinonychus.
Social bonds within a rookery are fluid, but persistent. Individuals recognize and seem to remember one another, even after long separations from each other.
Male and females show similar temperaments, with little differences in behavior between the genders.
Aggression within a rookery is never tolerated. Hostility, prolonged bullying, or unnecessary violence is quickly corrected by the rest of the group, with episodes of extreme aggression resulting in expulsion from the rookery.
While communal, Latenivenatrix form close knit pairs - or sometimes trios - within a rookery. These bonds are stable and often become lifelong, with bonded individuals resting and travelling closest to each other.
✦ Solitary Behavior
Although social by nature, Latenivenatrix are capable of functioning when solitary for extended periods. Solo individuals become quieter and more reserved, and show less communicative chatter or singing as opposed to those within a rookery.
Solitary Latenivenatrix often trail behind herbivore herds or Apex carnivores that tolerate them. When permitted, they utilize opportunities to scavenge from kills, and patiently observe their surroundings.
They remain nomadic, preferring not to settle in one location for long. They still place a nest down during the day which they rest in, but tend to place this in a less exposed - and more hidden - location for their own safety.
Prolonged solitude often results in restlessness, and even a depressed nature. Latenivenatrix thrive with others of their kind, and instinctively seek to join a rookery when possible.
Sometimes, extreme prolonged loneliness can result in reduced appetites - with individuals often refusing food, or showing little interest in hunting.
Achillobator companions help to stave away feelings of loneliness, and solitary Latenivenatrix adapt better when accompanied by these larger carnivores.
✦ Albino & Mutated Behavior
Albino and other mutated individuals are treated no differently by other Latenivenatrix, and do not appear to suffer any lasting health or social effects from their mutation.
Bild
✦ Within a rookery
Aggression between members of a rookery is rare, and strongly discouraged by social norms within the group.
Most conflicts arise from resource pressure - especially when a rookery is large and space/food is limited - or jealousy over mates. These disputes are brief, and usually consist of screeches, hissing, posturing, and a few exchanged nips - as opposed to prolonged fights.
On the rare occasions these disputes escalate into violence, the rest of the rookery quickly steps in to separate the fighting individuals, keen to smooth over relations before lasting damage is done.
Those in pairbonds - or trios - are highly protective of one another. Any challenge or dispute aimed at their partners are met with a united response from all bonded members.
Aggression displayed by those Adolescent and below is treated very differently. Young Latenivenatrix are forgiven easily for overstepping boundaries, as minor aggression is viewed as a natural part of their development.
Such behavior is corrected gently through vocal reprimands, brief physical redirection, or a temporary withdrawal of attention - all of which are far more effective than a harsh correction.
Violence towards chicks from adult members is never tolerated. Any adult that directs serious aggression or damage towards offspring is immediately confronted by the rookery, and may face exile if the behavior persists.
Individuals who repeatedly disrupt group harmony - or are otherwise excessively aggressive to others - are not tolerated. If corrective behavior fails, the rookery drives the individual away, resulting in expulsion from the group.
This begins with a form of shunning. Rookery members will turn their backs when approached, refuse grooming or vocal "chatter", and seek to body block the individual when the group is feeding.
Over time, this escalates to aggressive calling, with the final outcome being bites and chasing until the individual leaves the area.
Following any aggressive interaction, all members of the rookery show a strong tendency towards soothing behaviors. Group members gather closely together, engaging in mutual grooming and cooing for reassurance.
✦ Rookery to Rookery Encounters
When 2 rookeries encounter one another, interactions are cautious, but rarely violent. Initial contact begins with careful assessments of the other group, with individuals looking to see if the other rookery comprises individuals they recognize.
If familiar individuals are present - especially dispersed offspring or relatives - brief displays of affection may occur as both Latenivenatrix reconnect with one another.
This sometimes brings a shift in members within a rookery. Members may opt to disperse to join the other rookery in order to remain with these relatives or closely bonded individuals.
Otherwise, these exchanges are generally short-lived, with one of the rookeries moving on afterwards.
Only 1 rookery may occupy a POI at a time. The decision on which rookery stays is ultimately based on mutual agreement - but otherwise:
If one of the rookeries are nesting, the one nesting has the automatic right to remain in the POI.
If neither are nesting, but only one rookery has Achillobator companions, the one with the companions has the automatic right to remain in the POI.
If neither of these conditions apply - and neither group are willing to depart - a POI challenge occurs, with up to 6 Latenivenatrix from each rookery battling for the right to remain in the POI.
These battles are never fatal, and individuals forfeit before reaching deathscars.
Achillobator do not intervene in these battles.
Bild
✦ Achillobator
Latenivenatrix share a rare mutualistic relationship with Achillobator. This companionship is based around hunting together and protecting one another from threats, and often develops into close bonds between Latenivenatrix and their Achillobator companions.
Typically, Achillobator seek out Latenivenatrix companions - but solitary or lonely Latenivenatrix may seek out Achillobator themselves, especially if they are unable to find their way back to their rookery.
These bonds form quickly, with Latenivenatrix doting on their Achillobator friend every chance they get, through preening, alerting to prey and threats, and bringing them to food and other resources.
Once this bond has been formed, if a Latenivenatrix does find or makes their own rookery, Achillobator will follow - and quickly become doted on by the entire group!
With repeated successful hunts and considerable time spent together, Latenivenatrix rookeries eventually develop a “lifelong bond” with the same pair of Achillobator, opting not to pair with other Achillobator.
This extends to Latenivenatrix deeply mourning Achillobator who pass, to the point they may never find another Achillobator bond again.
Orphaned Latenivenatrix may also be adopted by Achillobator. While these chicks are typically much quieter than other Latenivenatrix, they form strong bonds with their Achillobator parent(s), and defend them fiercely.
Similarly, if Latenivenatrix have no bonded Achillobator, they may choose to adopt any orphaned Achillobator they come across, treating them as one of their own offspring, even when the Achillobator grows to be much larger than them!
Latenivenatrix will only hunt with Achillobator at night. However, they may defend a nearby and bonded Achillobator at any time.
Achillobator often nest at the same time as Latenivenatrix, and all offspring will be mixed together in the same creche. All offspring are doted on equally.
When offspring is raised in this manner, newly mature Achillobator and Latenivenatrix often disperse together.
✦ Deinonychus
When Deinonychus are noticed, Latenivenatrix shift into a heightened alert behavior. They freeze, lower into crouched positions, and communicate with each other with quiet calls.
If outnumbered - or simply caught off guard - Latenivenatrix attempt to flee, prioritizing their own survival over confrontation with this vicious smaller species.
This extends even to Latenivenatrix that are nesting or have their nest territory placed. Deinonychus are relentless and pose a considerable problem to Latenivenatrix that they outnumber, and Latenivenatrix prefer to relocate their nests and offspring to a safer location.
However, if numbers are equal - or in Latenivenatrix's favor - the rookery responds with aggressive mobbing behavior, and work together in unlimited numbers to drive the rival Deinonychus out.
Achillobator do not assist in these matters.
Achillobator grouped with Latenivenatrix, and Latenivenatrix groups, do not hunt Deinonychus. Latenivenatrix must challenge the Deinonychus out, or flee the POI.
 
✦ Apex Carnivores
Up to 3 Latenivenatrix that do not have Achillobator companions or a rookery may cautiously trail behind Apex carnivores that tolerate their presence, especially during the night.
When tolerated, they observe kills from a distance, watching carefully for scavenging opportunities.
If permitted, these Latenivenatrix may risk getting closer to their trailed carnivores, and especially bold individuals attempt to groom and pick insects and pests off of their bodies.
Any sign of aggression, however, sends these individuals fleeing, preferring not to push their luck.
Rookeries of more than 3 individuals - or any number of Latenivenatrix with Achillobator companions - never trail behind Apex carnivores or attempt to scavenge.
Direct confrontation with these species are avoided - unless hunting alongside Achillobator companions, escape is impossible, or their offspring are at risk.
Should an Apex carnivore approach a rookery's nesting territory, Latenivenatrix respond with coordinated warning calls and aggressive posturing, escalating to harassment and mobbing attacks until the threat leaves the territory.
With bonded Achillobator present, and 2+ Latenivenatrix, displays may escalate to harassment and mobbing attacks so long as the Apex is solo.
✦ Hatzegopteryx & Quetzalcoatlus
Latenivenatrix instinctively fear Hatzegopteryx and Quetzalcoatlus. No matter their number, the sight - or sound - of these large pterosaurs causes Latenivenatrix to scatter, rushing into thick undergrowth or other cover in order to hide themselves.
This occurs even when Latenivenatrix has Achillobator companions.
When hiding from these species, Latenivenatrix remain completely silent, careful not to alert them to their presence.
Nests are abandoned when these species circle overhead, with adults and caregivers moving to quickly push offspring to a safer location.
If already engaged, Latenivenatrix are not forced to abandon an engagement if Hatzegopteryx or Quetzalcoatlus are sighted.
 
✦ Herbivores
Up to 3 Latenivenatrix without Achillobator companions can sometimes turn their attention to herbivores - particularly herbivores that are Large tier or higher, and impossible for them to hunt.
Approaching cautiously, they carry small objects such as sticks, bones, flowers or other items, and drop them nearby these species to gauge their reactions.
This behavior appears to be borne out of curiosity as opposed to antagonistic, serving as a way to assess the species' temperament and how threatening they may be to the dromaeosaurid.
If tolerated, Latenivenatrix may try to venture closer to these larger species, seeking to pick insects and parasites from their bodies. However, any sign of aggression will prompt them to withdraw.
When permitted, these Latenivenatrix may trail behind these herds. Unable to hunt these herbivores, this behavior is thought to be strategic, serving as a way for them to benefit from a form of passive protection by reducing the likelihood of being targeted by predators.
They never alert herbivores to potential threats, preferring to withdraw from the herd when other predators are spotted to minimize drawing attention to themselves.
Latenivenatrix with Achillobator companions - or in a rookery with 4 or more members - do not act out this behavior, but all Latenivenatrix struggle to resist the opportunity to groom and clean a willing sauropod.
✦ Scavengers
Latenivenatrix do not tolerate scavengers.
Bild
✦ Hunting (without Achillobator)
Latenivenatrix hunt exclusively at night, and rely on their agility and coordination to wear down prey, as opposed to brute force.
Their targeted prey depends entirely on their own numbers, with smaller groups opting for smaller and easier prey.
Latenivenatrix look to hunt Lambeosaurus, Styracosaurus, Pachycephalosaurus, Citipati, Camptosaurus and Dryosaurus first and foremost if multiple prey options are available in the POI.
When huntable prey is spotted, Latenivenatrix may signal this with loud, echoing calls before the hunting party grows quiet, and may attempt to creep forward in a coordinated effort to position themselves ready to cut the targeted individual off.
Hunting party members spread out, seeking to cut off escape routes and circle around their target.
The hunt begins suddenly, with individuals rushing in to slash and tear at the flesh of their victim.
If the hunting party is spotted first or are unable to surprise their prey, a vicious attack is launched instead in an attempt to overwhelm their prey.
They pounce and cling onto their prey with their powerful claws, biting at them as the victim tries desperately to shake them off.
Once they take their prey down, all members of the rookery descend upon the corpse. Rookeries have no feeding hierarchy and feeding is communal, with the corpse freely shared amongst the group.
 
✦ Hunting with Achillobator
A maximum of 3 Latenivenatrix may hunt alongside their bonded Achillobator companions.
When hunting alongside Achillobator companions, 3 Latenivenatrix may hunt up to Apex tier - excluding sauropods such as Amargasaurus, Apatosaurus, and Argentinosaurus. 
As a result, they target larger prey first, such as: Iguanodon, Parasaurolophus, Pachyrhinosaurus and Eotriceratops if multiple prey options are available in the POI, within hunting limit requirements.
While Achillobator lead the hunt, Latenivenatrix act as consistent support and distraction, frequently jumping onto the sides of their targets and ripping deep holes into their scales and flesh.
 
Bild
✦ Courtship
Courtship is performed at night, before the group's communal nest territory is placed for the day's rest.
It begins with males placing down a nest that they construct carefully, decorating it with elaborate objects such as branches, bones, feathers, and other items. 
The more intricate the design the better, with beautifully built nests serving as the most attractive to potential partners.
Once placed, males climb atop their constructions, and begin performing their own unique dance. These dances vary between individuals, but often incorporate jumps, soft calls, twists and spins - all to match the individual's own rhythm.
One male placing a nest and dancing in this way usually triggers a domino effect in the rest of the rookery, with others rushing to follow suit, ensuring a rookery produces offspring at a similar time.
Females seeking a female partner will also construct a nest and perform a dance. Any males that approach her are ignored, with the performing female looking only for female partners.
Interested partners will settle at the foot of the nest of the performer and coo softly and affectionately to them. 
If the performer is uninterested in any of their audience, they turn their backs and ignore them. With no potential partners - or only unsuitable ones - the nest is abandoned entirely.
A male is only able to court up to two females at a time, to be able to successfully provide for both and all of his chicks.
Males may seek a male partner and settle together after one has performed to woo the other. Once in a pairbond, they may perform for another partner to join them as a trio - and perform together in the same nest.
Female pairs seeking a third female will perform the same.
Already established pairs or trios still perform the nest construction and courtship dance - though this is entirely performative, and either occurs to signify a desire to nest with their partner(s) - or simply enthusiasm to join in with the rest of the rookery.
When creating a nesting post, if the trio consists of 2 males and 1 female, the males will post separate nests, splitting the eggs. The total egg limit cannot be exceeded unless multipliers are used.
Trios of 1 male and 2 females, if both females wish to nest, will be done in two separate nesting posts by the male, each listing one of the females. Each female has their individual egg count.
 
✦ Nesting
Even if not nesting, the entire group opts to place nests, to act as shelter for offspring and to act as the foundation of a small nesting territory. These nests are placed as close together as possible, with no individuals attempting to nest separately.
Mates will place their nests all in the same area, to act as a small hub where their offspring will live the most of their early lives.
The male’s nest is typically the host to the offspring, but if a male is nesting with more than one female, one female may invite the offspring to her own nest.
Same-sex pairs or trios do not court outside of their pair or trio and so do not produce biological offspring, but relish in assisting the rookery in raising offspring, and readily adopt orphans they encounter.
✦ Parenthood
Latenivenatrix parents are very devoted to their chicks, but the entire rookery pitches in together to raise young, as typically a rookery nests simultaneously. Each individual is keen to contribute and form a connection with all chicks nested in, and all are often encouraged to play together.
If play behaviors go too far, parents are quick to gently correct the chick, and instead display and encourage how play should be done.
Parents constantly sing to their offspring, and express great excitement when chicks return the song, jumping around and flaring their wings. This often begins a vicious cycle between parents and chicks, and much "excited-running" around within the creche.
If a majority of the rookery is gone on a hunt or for food, some individuals are left behind to act as babysitters, in order to ensure that no chick wanders off too far from the creche.
Wandering chicks are immediately ferried back to the shelter of the nesting area, and kept a very close eye on to ensure it does not happen again.
Parents constantly nuzzle all chicks that approach them. This often means that the same chick will constantly cycle back to individuals whom they most enjoy being nuzzled by - as they will receive this every time they approach and chirp.
✦ Offspring Maturity
Parents remain extremely doting on their offspring even into adulthood. Some may continue to feed them, even after the individual is full grown.
Latenivenatrix offspring may opt to disperse through their own choice, or stay in their rookery if there is room.
If there is no room, they must disperse; but are often followed by individuals whom they have closely bonded with throughout their youth. Parents often follow their chicks as well to disperse - though this varies from individual to individual.
✦ Adoption
Latenivenatrix have no qualms with adopting, and will easily ferry both Latenivenatrix and Achillobator orphans into their creche.
Bild
As Latenivenatrix grow into elders, they show very little physical difference or behavioral changes. They may nap longer, move slower, and show more signs of exhaustion after particularly intense hunts, but still sing, play, and run about as usual.
The rest of their group is always happy to continue to care for them, and even may dote on them, especially if related to them in some fashion.
Elders are often the most common pick for babysitters, as they are the most experienced in handling and correcting mischievous chicks.
✦ Death
Latenivenatrix mourn heavily when members in their rookery die. They may remember the locations and bring gifts to the place where their lost one passed away, particularly items that were used to decorate their nest.
Bild
While able to hunt alongside Achillobator, Latenivenatrix is not able to form an in game group with Achillobator, due to server limits.
Latenivenatrix may still hunt offspring and Albinos during the day time.
Bild
Latenivenatrix share timers with their Achillobator companions when hunting with them.
Latenivenatrix may defend their Achillobator companions at any time, but only hunt alongside them at night.
Latenivenatrix may only hunt Apex tier species with 2 Latenivenatrix and 1+ Achillobator. They will not hunt sauropods such as Amargasaurus, Apatosaurus, or Argentinosaurus, and will not hunt pairs of Apex carnivores.
Latenivenatrix do not have to claim Latenivenatrix body downs.

RULE EXEMPTIONS
Latenivenatrix are unable to eat the bodies of Metriacanthosaurus without suffering averse side effects. See ⁠📜・server-guide⁠OPTIONAL - Illnesses & Injuries for more information. 4.4
Latenivenatrix have no species timer when challenging and chasing Deinonychus out of the POI. 6.2
 
Preferred POIs
Dynasty RealismRollenicon, Co-Owner
OP
 — 12.04.2026 23:06
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Bild
Profile - Quick View
Latenivenatrix are Small Nocturnal Terrestrial Carnivores.
Latenivenatrix can group up to 16 sub/adults, unlimited offspring, unlimited adoptees, known as a rookery. Additionally, Latenivenatrix may hunt alongside up to 2 Achillobator with up to 3 sub/adults.
Latenivenatrix are tolerant in nature when not defending their nest site territories.
Latenivenatrix can have up to 6 in an engagement. When hunting with Achillobator, up to 3 Latenivenatrix may assist.
Latenivenatrix may hunt up to Large tier with 6 individuals in a hunting party. With 1+ Achillobator, 3 Latenivenatrix may hunt Apex tier. Latenivenatrix may scavenge.
Latenivenatrix are a sweet and social species, forming strong bonds with one another.
Latenivenatrix form large nest clusters during the daytime or during rest periods, known as a creche. They claim small territories and defend them fiercely from offending species.
Latenivenatrix may form strong bonds with the raptor Achillobator, may adopt them, and may work together with them in hunts and defence.
Latenivenatrix are heard singing often, and are constantly chatty, talking to each other and calling to one another loudly.
Latenivenatrix are very curious about new items and species, and may even approach them outright. They explore these objects with sniffs and circling, and may follow new individuals for extended periods of time.
Latenivenatrix are very active, and enjoy jumping and dancing about.
Dynasty Adjusted Stats
Growth Time (hatchling-juvenile, juvenile-adolescent, adolescent-sub, sub-adult in minutes): 10-20-30-30 = 90 total
Combat Weight: 1400
Adjusted Stats:
- Jump force multiplier increased
- Sprinting speed increased
- Stamina recovery rate increased
- Subspecies buffs removed
- Increased health from 400 to 500
 
Quick Links
Top
Growing up
General Behavior
Social Interaction
Aggressive Interaction
Cross-Species Interaction
Hunting Strategy
Courtship & Parenthood
Elderly
Preferred POIs
Resource Map
Terminology
Return to directory?